FAMILY LAW  PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE Stay of Orders  where orders made requiring other parties to producedocumentspursuant to a subpoena  where subpoenaed persons have appealedorder for production  whether appeal would be renderednugatory prejudice to the husband  stay granted. Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) Family Law Rules2004 (Cth) r 22.11 Aldridge & Keaton (Stay Appeal) [2009] FamCAFC 106 Friscioni & Friscioni [2009]FamCAFC 43 Trahn & Long (No 2) [2008] FamCAFC 194 APPLICANTS: Mr F S, Mr C S, Mr E S, Ms D S FIRST RESPONDENT: Mr Hall SECONDRESPONDENT Ms Hall FILENUMBER: ADC 3671 of 2013 DATE DELIVERED: 23 October 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Adelaide PLACE HEARD: Adelaide JUDGMENT OF: Dawe J HEARING DATE: 17 September 2014 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANTS: Mr Doyle SOLICITOR FOR THE APPLICANTS: Shaw Lawyers COUNSELFOR THE FIRST RESPONDENT: Mr OShannessy SOLICITOR FOR THE FIRST RESPONDENT: Kennedy Partners COUNSEL FOR THE SECOND RESPONDENT: Mr Ackman QC with Ms Kari SOLICITOR FOR THE SECOND RESPONDENT: Barnes Brinsley Shaw Lawyers ORDERS (1) That paragraph 2 of theorders made 17 June 2014 be stayed pending determination of the appeal (SOA41/2014). IT IS NOTED that publication of thisjudgment by this Court under the pseudonym Sadek and Ors & Hall andAnor has been approved by the Chief Justice pursuant to s 121(9)(g)of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT ADELAIDE FILE NUMBER:ADC 3671 of 2013 Mr F S Mr CS Mr E S and Ms D S Applicants And Mr Hall First Respondent And Ms Hall SecondRespondent REASONS FOR JUDGMENT INTRODUCTION MsHall (the wife) initiated proceedings in this Court on 3 October2013 seeking orders in relation to both propertyand childrens matters. Mr Hall (the husband) filed a Response on 13 November 2013. This judgment concernsan application for a stay of orders requiring thewifes mother and brothers to produce documents relating to the estate ofthe wifes late father, Mr Mr G S. On26 November 2013 the husband issued subpoenas to the wifes mother, Ms DS, and the wifes three brothers, Mr F S,Mr C S and Mr E S (theother parties). The subpoenas required the production of documentsrelating to the estate ofthe deceased and a copy of the will. Theother parties each filed a Notice of Objection on 10 January 2014 in which itwas submitted that the subpoenas were oppressive,sought irrelevant documentsand were the subject of legal privilege and confidentiality. Thematter came before me on 14 March 2014. Following submissions from all partiesI reserved judgment at the conclusion of the hearing. Judgmentwas subsequently delivered on 17 June 2014. Orders were made requiring theother parties to comply with the subpoenas withinfourteen days (See Hall& Hall and Anor (Objection to Subpoena) [2014] FamCA 407). Upondelivery of judgment counsel for the other parties made an oral application fora stay of the orders pending the filing of aNotice of Appeal. The stay wasgranted on an interim basis, 35 days, to enable the parties to file a formalapplication. On11 July 2014 the other parties filed a Notice of Appeal and an Application in aCase seeking a stay of paragraph 2 of the ordersmade 17 June 2014 pendingdetermination of their appeal. Paragraph 2 is as follows: (2) Thesubpoenaed persons comply with the subpoenas within fourteen [14] days fromtoday. Thatapplication was to be heard on 17 July 2014 but at the husbands request,and with the consent of all parties, the applicationwas adjourned to17 September 2014. The stay of paragraph 2 continued during the period ofthe adjournment. The Law Pursuantto the Family Law Rules 2004 (Cth) the filing of a Notice of Appeal does not inand of itself stay the operation of an order: RULE 22.11 Stay (1) The filing of a Notice of Appeal does not stay the operation orenforcement of the order appealed from, unless otherwise providedby alegislative provision. (2) If an appeal has been started, or a party has applied for leave to appealagainst an order, any party may apply for an order stayingthe operation orenforcement of all, or part, of the order to which the appeal or applicationrelates. (3) An application for a stay must be filed in the Registry in which theorder under appeal was made and be heard by the Judge, FederalMagistrate orMagistrate who made the order under appeal. Themaking of an order for a stay is wholly discretionary and thecircumstances that would justify an order for a stay depend on the circumstancesof each case (Friscioni & Friscioni [2009]FamCAFC 43 at [54]). Theprinciples applicable to the granting of a stay are well settled. InAldridge & Keaton (Stay Appeal) [2009] FamCAFC 106 the Full Courtlisted the factors relevant to the exercise ofdiscretion:  the onus to establish a proper basis for thestay is on the applicant for the stay. However it is not necessary for theapplicantto demonstrate any special or exceptionalcircumstances;  a person who has obtained a judgment is entitled to the benefit ofthat judgment;  a person who has obtained a judgment is entitled to presume thejudgment is correct;  the mere filing of an appeal is insufficient to grant a stay;  the bona fides of the applicant;  a stay may be granted on terms that are fair to all parties - thismay involve a court weighing the balance of convenienceand the competing rightsof the parties;  a weighing of the risk that an appeal may be rendered nugatory if astay is not granted  this will be a substantialfactor in determiningwhether it will be appropriate to grant a stay;  some preliminary assessment of the strength of the proposed appeal whether the appellant has an arguable case;  the desirability of limiting the frequency of any change in achilds living arrangements;  the period of time in which the appeal can be heard and whetherexisting satisfactory arrangements may support the grantingof the stay for ashort period of time; and  the best interests of the child the subject of the proceedings are asignificant consideration. Consideration Myorders of 17 June 2014 compelled the production of documents relating to theestate of the wifes late father. It was submittedby counsel for theother parties, Mr Doyle, that there is not merely a risk but rather aninevitable result that the appeal willbe rendered nugatory if a stay is notgranted. Mr Doyle in both his written and oral submissions noted that asnon-parties to thelitigation, and not willing combatants,the Court should be mindful not to unduly interfere with theircapacity to invoke the Courts processes to protect their privacy andconfidentiality. Plainlythe production of the documents pursuant to the orders of 17 June 2014 wouldrender the appeal nugatory. However, while therisk the appeal would berendered nugatory if a stay is not granted is a significant factor in this case,it is but one of a numberof factors I must consider. Afurther consideration is the merits of the appeal. A consideration of themerits of an appeal has been described by the Full Courtin Trahn & Long(No 2) [2008] FamCAFC 194 as some preliminary assessment of thestrength of the proposed appeal. It is not a re-hearing of themerits of the applicants proposed orders but rather an exercise toestablish whether the applicanthas an arguable case on appeal. Counselfor the other parties submitted that the grounds as set out in the Notice ofAppeal filed 11 July 2014 have about them a degreeof complexity in that theyraise questions of principle, as opposed to simply contesting an exercise ofdiscretion. Thegrounds of appeal are in part directed towards whether the Harmanundertaking and s 121 of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) are sufficientto address the other parties concerns in relation to the dissemination ofconfidential and sensitive information. The remaining grounds consider theappropriateness of masking documents, the extent to which a practitionersaffidavit deposingto relevance may be accepted and the breadth and relevance ofthe subpoena. Giventhe appropriateness or otherwise of masking documents was not argued before me,I question the merits of that ground of appeal. Similarly, I see little meritin the appeal directed towards the terms of the subpoena. However, on apreliminary assessment ofthe grounds of appeal the other parties haveestablished an arguable case. Theother parties prospects of success must be weighed against thedisadvantage suffered by the husband if the stay were tobe granted. Counselfor the husband, Mr OShannessy, submitted the subject documents wereintegral to the husbands pending spousalmaintenance appeal. Mr OShannessy argued the husband would have no prospectsof success without the information contained in the Will andassociated documents as he would be unable to identify the wifes propertyand financial resources. However,counsel for the other parties submitted that there could be noirreversible prejudice to the husband if the stay was granted. Ifthe husband is correct in his assertion that the wife has significant assets, oraccess to significantfinancial resources, then the issue can be remedied at thefinal hearing of the matter. MrDoyle further submitted that as the husband had earlier estimated his businessinterests to be worth perhaps $70 million in an affidavitfiled 7 March 2014 the husband would suffer little disadvantage if he wasrequired to continue to meet his spousalmaintenance obligations. The husbandhas subsequently filed affidavits that suggest his financial position hasaltered. Conclusion Iam satisfied the other parties have established a proper basis for the grantingof a stay. Accordingly, I intend to stay the operationof paragraph 2 of ordersmade 17 June 2014 pending determination of the appeal. I certifythat the preceding twenty-two (22) paragraphs are a true copy of the reasons forjudgment of the Honourable Justice Dawedelivered on 23 October2014. Associate: Date: 23 October 2014 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/900.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    