FAMILY LAW  Adjournment of contraventionproceedings  no direct judicial communication with Egypt absentconsent APPLICANT: Ms Fallon RESPONDENT: Mr Bashandi INTERVENOR: INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: Ms Hams FILENUMBER: MLC 6992 of 2013 DATE DELIVERED: 4 August 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Melbourne PLACE HEARD: Melbourne JUDGMENT OF: Bennett J HEARING DATE: 4 August 2014 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: Ms Vohra SOLICITOR FOR THE APPLICANT: Taussig Cherrie Fildes COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENT: Mr Boden SOLICITOR FOR THE RESPONDENT: Starnet Legal COUNSEL FOR INDEPENDENTCHILDRENS LAWYER: SOLICITOR FOR THE INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYERRESPONDENT: Glezer Lanteri & Associates ORDERS ITIS ORDERED THAT: Thismatter be adjourned part heard to 9 September 2014 at 3.00 pm formention. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED BY CONSENT THAT: Paragraph4 of the Order made on 1 July 2014 be varied and the wife have sole authority toapply for and complete the applicationfor a new Australian passport to issuefor the child Z born ... 2009 (the child). Thehusbands consent for the issuing of the new Australian passport for thechild be dispensed with given the wife and thechild remain overseas in Egyptand the application for the new passport will therefore have to seek that it beissued whilst thechild is overseas. Theorders in paragraph 5, 6 and 7 of the Orders made on 1 July 2014 otherwiseremain in full force and effect. IT IS DIRECTEDTHAT: MyAssociate make arrangements for the mother to appear at the mention on 9September 2014 by audio-visual link. IT IS NOTED thatpublication of this judgment by this Court under the pseudonym Fallon &Bashandi has been approved by the Chief Justice pursuant to s 121(9)(g) ofthe Family Law Act 1975 (Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT MELBOURNE FILE NUMBER:MLC 6992 of 2013 MS FALLON Applicant And MR BASHANDI Respondent And INDEPENDENT CHILDRENSLAWYER REASONS FOR JUDGMENT EX TEMPORE Thismatter was previously before me for the hearing of the four contraventionapplications issued by the mother and filed, respectively,on 23 September 2013,18 March 2014, 5 May 2014 and 24 June 2014. The respondent father required theapplicant mother for crossexamination. By the time this matter was ready toproceed, the mother had not slept for in excess of 24 hours and I consideredthatit was not appropriate that she be cross-examined under thosecircumstances. Accordingly, I adjourned the case. Todays datewastherefore fixed and the commencement time was set for 3 pm, which is rather morehumane than starting this matter at 10 am. Oneof the opportunities afforded by the adjournment was for the parties to considerwhat, if any, direct judicial communication maybenefit this matter in relationto getting the child Z born 4 May 2009, home. This is direct judicialcommunication as contemplatedby the Permanent Bureau of the Hague Conference onPrivate International Law. It is discussed in Direct Judicial Communications:Emerging Guidance regarding the Development of the International Hague Networkof Judges and GeneralPrinciples for Judicial Communications, including CommonlyAccepted Safeguards for Direct Judicial Communications in Specific Cases,withinthe Context of the International Hague Network of Judges (HCCH Publications,2013) <http://www.hcch.net/upload/brochure_djc_en.pdf>. Inthe interim, the mother has changed her legal practitioners to Taussig CherrieFildes and changed her counsel to Ms Vohra. Shehas also taken some steps,although not completed, on an application for a new passport for the child. Those steps do not includehaving submitted an application for that passport forexecution by the father. The father says that he has remained willing toexecuteany application. Thefather has put on a further affidavit, which is sworn on 1 August 2013. It isfolio 44 on the court file. I am informed, however,by Ms Vohra of counsel, andI accept, that neither she nor her client has seen the affidavit. The affidavitlargely consists ofsubmissions and arguments as to why the contraventionapplications are inherently difficult and also sets out some two pages ofinstancesin which the father says that he has recently been threatened by textmessage or telephone, and one of those text messages apparentlyemanates fromEgypt. Thefather, who is the respondent to the contravention applications says, through MrBoden, that these proceedings are extremely stressfulfor him, that he has beenin court on 17 occasions and they are hanging over his head, and that he wantsthem to be dealt with assoon as possible or today. Ihavent counted up the times that the matter has been to court, althoughthe first contravention application is that filedon 23 September 2013, and thatwas folio number 10 on the court file. We are now up to folio number 44 on thecourt file and itdoes appear that there have been a great many appearances. Not all of those have been referable to the contravention applications,althoughthe contravention applications have been pending for a considerable period oftime. Thiscourt makes orders in relation to children. This court must enforce the ordersit makes. One of the remedies for enforcementand to aid compliance with ordersis contravention applications. They are applications to which there attachescertain privilegesand protections, particularly for those respondents. Theprejudice caused to the father by the applications not proceeding todayis thathe will be under stress. That is not desirable and I take it into account. Iaccept the submission of Ms Vohra that the mother is also under stress. She isunder stress because she is, in effect, detainedin a country that she does notwant to remain in, because she cannot remove the parties child from thecountry. The childhas not seen her father for in excess of one year. I acceptthat the wife is under a great deal more stress than the father is inAustralia.I accept that stress for the wife is likely to impact adversely on themothers capacity to parent the child and,therefore, on the child. I takethis into account and accord it considerable weight. The adjournment sought bythe mother will prolongthe contravention proceedings but is sought by themother to put those proceedings on a better footing. The applications wereservedby the wifes former solicitors. There is merit in allowing themother more time. MsVohra says that the reason for the adjournment includes the collation ofdocuments which the mother has indicated to her shouldbe on the court file, butMs Vohra is satisfied they are not. In particular, two documents or sets ofdocuments have been describedin general terms. One is documents which wouldtend to prove that the father has revoked the defective power of attorney whichheexecuted in November 2013. That is the document that should have containedreference to an irrefutable power of attorney, but thetermirrefutable was omitted. Thenext aspect of the matter, and one to which the affidavit sworn and filed by thehusband on 1 August 2014 is directed, is hisassertion that he is not in controlof nor a participant in the proceedings which are being conducted in Egypt. Onthe last occasionthat the father was in court, he indicated that thoseproceedings were not conducted at his behest. He said that they may beconductedat the behest of his family or by some other person. Today, in theaffidavit material he has now filed, he says that he is unableto verify whetherhis family members have the conduct of those proceedings, because his familymembers have not spoken to him consequentupon him divorcing the mother andlifting the travel ban that concerns her personally. Contraventionproceedings are important proceedings. In the circumstances of the case, I donot propose to compel the wife to proceedwith them today. She seeks anadjournment for what seems to be a genuine and legitimate reason. There may beprejudice to the father,but it seems to me that that prejudice can, to acertain extent, be relieved by other applications that he may make. Iwill adjourn the contravention application to 9 September 2014. I will take thematter at 3 pm on that day. That is in advanceof the next return date in theproceedings in Egypt. I stress that in the event that a party wants from thecourt some other hearingor intervention prior to the November proceedings (andeven prior to the adjourned date which I will now allocate), they need onlycontact my Associate and the matter will be relisted as quickly as possible tosee what, if anything, should be done. Iwill allow the application of the mother for an adjournment of the contraventionapplications. Finally,for the record, I made enquiries as to judges in Egypt to whom I could directjudicial communications. Notwithstanding thatEgypt is not a contracting stateunder any relevant Hague Convention, I am confident that communications could becommenced. However,at the behest of the mother, I did nothing else. The motherwas very much opposed to there being any direct judicial communicationaboutwhether the father could give evidence in the Egyptian proceedings by electronicmeans. Accordingly, I have not taken the matterfurther and, in the absence ofconsent by both parties, will not do so. If the parties change their minds,someone should bringthat to my attention. I certify that thepreceding fourteen (14) paragraphs are a true copy of the reasons for judgmentof the Honourable Justice Bennettdelivered on 4 August2014. Associate: Date: AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/926.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              