FAMILY LAW  PROPERTY  Interim Where there are many issues of disputed fact which are yet to be testedWhere the parties entered into a financial agreement pursuant to s 90Cof the Family Law Act 1975  Where the wife seeks to set aside thefinancial agreement on the basis of fraud by reason of non-disclosure by thehusbandof a material matter  Where neither spouse party can invoke thejurisdiction under Part VIII of the Act unless and until the financial agreementis set aside under s 90K  Where there needs to be a determinationunder s 90K as to whether the financial agreement is set aside before itcould be determined that proceedings under Part VIII s 79 of the Act couldproceed  Where there are proceedings on foot in the AdministrativeAppeals Tribunal concerning similar issuesin these proceedings which have yetto be determined FAMILY LAW  PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE  Wherethe Commissioner of Taxation seeks leave to intervene in these proceedingspursuant to s 92 of the Act  Where it is premature for the Commissionerto be granted leave to intervene to protect the Commissionersposition asa creditor in s 79 proceedings when it remained to be seen whether the financialagreement will be set aside to allow such proceedings to be advanced Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) Income TaxAssessment Act 1936 (Cth) Taxation Administration Act 1953(Cth) Family Law Rules 2004 (Cth) Commissioner of Taxation & Darling andAnor (2014) FLC 93-583 Darling v Commissioner of Taxation and Anor [2014] HCATrans 178 APPLICANT: Ms Acker FIRST RESPONDENT: Mr Acker SECONDRESPONDENT: B Pty Ltd atf Acker Investment Trust THIRD RESPONDENT: F Pty Ltd atf Acker FamilyTrust FOURTH RESPONDENT: B Pty Ltd atf C Trust FIFTH RESPONDENT: D Ltd atf D Trust SIXTH RESPONDENT: P Ltd SEVENTH RESPONDENT: E Pty Ltd EIGHTH RESPONDENT: T Pty Ltd NINTH RESPONDENT: Ms G Acker TENTH RESPONDENT Ms Stager ELEVENTH RESPONDENT Ms J Acker FILENUMBER: BRC 8080 of 2014 DATE DELIVERED: 22 October 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Brisbane PLACE HEARD: Brisbane JUDGMENT OF: Kent J HEARING DATE: 26 September 2014 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: Mr Simon White SC SOLICITOR FOR THE APPLICANT: Rice Naughton COUNSEL FOR THE FIRST RESPONDENT: Ms Catherine Carew QC SOLICITOR FOR THE FIRST RESPONDENT: Robert Bax & Associates COUNSEL FOR THE FIFTH, SIXTH, NINTH AND TENTHRESPONDENTS: Mr David de Jersey SOLICITOR FOR THE FIFTH, SIXTH, NINTH AND TENTH RESPONDENTS: Russells ITIS NOTED that publication of this judgment by this Court under the pseudonymAcker & Acker and Ors has been approved by the Chief Justice pursuantto s 121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT BRISBANE FILE NUMBER:BRC 8080 of 2014 Ms Acker Applicant And Mr Acker First Respondent And B Pty Ltd atf Acker InvestmentTrust Second Respondent And F Pty Ltd atf Acker FamilyTrust Third Respondent And B Pty Ltd atf CTrust Fourth Respondent And D Ltd atf DTrust Fifth Respondent And P Ltd SixthRespondent And E Pty Ltd SeventhRespondent And T Pty Ltd EighthRespondent And Ms G Acker NinthRespondent And Ms Stager TenthRespondent And Ms J Acker Eleventh Respondent REASONS FOR JUDGMENT On26 September 2014, apart from making certain orders by consent upon undertakingsof each of the applicant and first respondentand reserving costs and makingother directions, I ordered that the Application in a Case filed by theCommissioner of Taxation on19 September 2014 seeking leave to intervene inthese proceedings pursuant to s 92 of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth)(the Act); and further procedural orders asdescribed in the application; be adjourned to a dateto be fixed. I furtherrefused to entertain an oral application made at the hearing by the Commissionerfor mareva injunctions. These are the reasons for those determinations. Thefollowing is by way of overview or background drawn from the material filed todate by or on behalf of one or other of the twelveparties to these proceedings.I am mindful that there are many issues of disputed fact in these proceedingswhich are yet to be tested. At least some parties are yet to respond to mattersof fact advanced by or on behalf of others. I therefore do not purport toexpressconcluded findings of fact but rather to provide some broad context,some of which may ultimately prove to be at variance from factsdetermined at afurther hearing or trial. Subject relationship and marriage MrAcker (the husband) and Ms Acker (the wife)commenced a relationship in June 2005; began cohabitationin June 2007; marriedin March 2010 and separated in June 2014. Their marriage produced two children,a girl born in August 2010who is currently 4 years of age and a girl born inNovember 2012 who will soon turn 2 years of age. On3 August 2010 and thus during their marriage the parties made a writtenagreement pursuant to, and within the meaning of, s 90C of the Act. Thatagreement purported to operate, upon the parties separation, insubstitution for any rights either partymight otherwise have under Part VIII ofthe Act. That is, by operation of s 71A, Part VIII of the Act does not apply tofinancial matters or financial resources to which a financial agreement that isbinding on the partiesapplies and by the terms of the subject agreement it isexpressed to have that application. Insummary the financial agreement provides for each party to retain, to theexclusion of the other, all assets and financial resourcesin that partysname or control as at the date of the agreement and thereafter; and any futureincome or property derived fromthat source as existing at the date of theagreement. Mechanisms are included for the division of any jointly acquiredproperty,acquired jointly after the date of the agreement. Eachspouse party to the agreement acknowledged, by its express terms, an obligationto make full and frank disclosure of their thenexisting financial circumstancesand annexed to the agreement are schedules purporting to be that disclosure byeach party respectively. Itbears some emphasis in the context of the Commissioners application thatthe subject financial agreement here does not operateas a mechanism whereby onespouse transfers to the other any then existing legal or equitable interest inany property or financialresource then held by that party, a matter which mightexcite the interest of a creditor. To the contrary, the subject financialagreement is directed to preserving to each party respectively the property andfinancial resources of that party held by that partyat the time of theagreement together with derivations in future from that original source. Italso bears some emphasis that it was apparently not in issue as between thespouse parties given the terms of the financial agreementthat: neitherspouse party can invoke the jurisdiction under Part VIII of the Act unless anduntil the financial agreement is set aside under s 90K of the Act; and therewould need to be a determination under s 90K as to whether or not thefinancial agreement is set aside before it could be determined that proceedingsunder Part VIII specifically pursuant to s 79 of the Act could legitimatelyproceed. Havingregard to the main purpose of the Family Law Rules 2004 (Cth)(the Rules) as expressed in r 1.04; the way the main purposeis to be promoted in accordance with r 1.06; andthe way that is achieved asexpressed r 1.07; this is an obvious case for an order to be made pursuantto r 10.14 for the wifesapplication to set aside the financialagreement pursuant to s 90K to be heard and determined as a discrete issue,rather than thatbeing heard with any s 79 proceeding, the legitimacy ofwhich may depend upon the outcome of the discrete determination. Takenfrom the written submissions on behalf of the wife filed in advance of thehearing on 26 September 2014, her challenge unders 90K will include a challengethat the agreement was obtained by fraud by reason of non-disclosure by thehusband of a materialmatter. In summary, whilst the husband disclosed whatwere described as beneficiary interests in wholly discretionary trusts thewifeforeshadows that she will contend that at all material times the property of thetrusts was actually in the whole or at leastpartial ownership of thehusband. Aswill be further discussed this issue or similar issues are before theAdministrative Appeals Tribunal by reason of an objectiontaken by the husbandto an assessment made by the Australian Taxation Office. That objection is tobe heard in April 2015. As atthe conclusion of the lengthy negotiationsundertaken on 26 September 2014 after the matter was mentioned it appeared to bea commonposition as between the husband and wife that, other than interimorders they were able to agree upon, the substantive issues (otherthanparenting matters) could only be properly heard and determined by this Courtwhen the final outcome of the proceedings currentlybefore the AdministrativeAppeals Tribunal was known. Other parties Thesecond to eighth respondents are various companies and trusts which comprisewhat may conveniently referred to as the AckerGroup in which oneor more of the wife, the husband, his two sisters and his mother (Ms H) have aninterest. The fifth respondent,D Ltd is a company incorporated in the BritishVirgin Islands. It is said to act as trustee of the D Trust, a discretionarytrustsettled in the British Virgin Islands. A copy of the companyincorporation documents and the trust deed are attached to the affidavitof theninth respondent filed on 25 September 2014. The directors of the trusteecompany are the husband, the ninth and tenth respondentsand the husbandsmother. The ninth respondent is the sole shareholder of D Ltd and she is ajoint protector of the D Trustwith the tenth Respondent. Thesixth respondent, P Ltd is a company incorporated in the British Virgin Islandsin August 2010. The tenth respondent is the directorof P Ltd and its soleshareholder is the D Trust. P Ltd is a foreign company registered in Australiafor the purpose of, inter alia,share trading. The fifth respondent, D Ltd,provides loans to P Ltd to carry out the share trading and the husband isemployed byP Ltd to undertake the share trading on its behalf for which P Ltdpays the husband a salary. Theseventh respondent is a company incorporated in Australia in April 2010 in whichthe husband is the sole director and secretaryand in which D Ltd is the soleshareholder. This company is said to provide administrative services to P Ltdand D Ltd and is paidby those entities for those services. Theeighth respondent, T Pty Ltd, is a company incorporated in Australia in November2006 in which the husband is the sole director,secretary and shareholder. Theninth respondent, Ms G Acker and the eleventh respondent, Ms J Acker, are thehusbands two sisters who both have an interestin the Acker group. Thetenth respondent Ms Stager is a professional trustee who resides in Switzerlandand is paid for her services as a protector ofthe D Trust and her role as adirector of D Ltd. Husbands taxation dispute TheCommissioner relied upon the affidavit of its employee Mr K filed 19 September2014 and, other than an affidavit of service, thiswas the extent of theevidence relied upon by the Commissioner. MrK deposes that on or about 19 March 2009, the Commissioner commenced areview of the financial affairs of [the husband],and an audit was commenced onor about 5 October 2010 in respect of the years of income 30 June 2003 to30 June 2010. MrK further deposes that on 24 August 2012 the Commissioner: madean assessment that $1,190,188.85 was the amount of tax payable by the husbandfor the income year ended 30 June 2008; servedthe husband with notice of that amended assessment; madean assessment of administrative penalties in respect of the shortfall in taxpaid by the husband for the 2008 income year of$895,770.65 and served notice ofthat assessment on the husband; servednotice upon the husband of a shortfall interest charge in respect of theadditional tax assessed in the amount of $322,612.44. MrK deposes that a certificate issued pursuant to the relevant provisions of theTaxation Administration Act 1953 (Cth) on 18 September 2014 certifyingthat the amount of $2,939,660.24 is, as at the date of the certificate, a debtdue and payableby the husband to the Commonwealth in respect of income tax,penalties and interest; the certificate is annexed to his affidavit. Inote in passing that there is no explanation in Mr Ks affidavit and thusno evidence provided by the Commissioner in supportof the application, as tothe following: thebasis or bases of the Commissioners assessment of the husbandstaxation for the 2008 financial year being in theamount of $1,190,188.85; incircumstances where the relevant assessments and notices referred to issued aslong ago as 24 August 2012, the detail of any stepstaken by the Commissioner topursue recovery of the debt or any reasons for no steps being taken, if that bethe position; thefact that the husband is pursuing an application for review in theAdministrative Appeals Tribunal of the Commissionersdisallowance of thehusbands objection to the assessments issued to him for the year ended 30June 2008. Asto (a) above, other material before the Court indicates that, in essence, thebasis for the 2008 assessment is a conclusion bythe Commissioner that what ispurported to be a loan the husband received from his sister, the ninthrespondent via the Acker Groupin the 2008 year, is not in truth a loan but isin fact a distribution of profit to the husband earned on funds invested on hisbehalffrom 2002 onwards. Asto (c) above, it is clear that the husband is challenging, via his applicationfor review in the Administrative Appeals Tribunal,the subject assessment ofprimary tax in the 2008 year (and thus the consequent penalties and interest)and that challenge is reportedto be proceeding to a hearing in April2015. Commissioners Application Againstthe above background the Commissioner filed an Application in a Case on 19September 2014 seeking these orders: 1. Leave be granted to theCommissioner of Taxation (the Commissioner) to: (a) intervene in the proceeding pursuant to section 92 of the Family LawAct 1975 (Cth); and (b) inspect and copy all court documents filed in the proceeding and anydocuments produced by the parties or any third partiespursuant to subpoenas orsimilar court process. 2. As part of any final property settlement or orders between [the husband]and [the wife], this Honourable Court- (a) take into account the taxation liabilities of [the husband]; (b) make provision for the payment of the taxation liabilities of [thehusband] to the Commissioner of Taxation. 3. That the costs of the Commissioner of Taxation be paid by [the husband]and [the wife], or either of them. 4. Such further or other orders as this Honourable Court deems fit tomake. Asis obvious, none of the orders sought in the application included any orders inthe nature of interlocutory injunctions; nor didthe orders sought address inany way the question of the subject financial agreement. Mr Ks affidavitin support of the applicationlikewise does not address either of these issues. Thus it is that none of the other parties were on notice that the Commissionerproposed to seek any injunctive relief; and the orders sought by theCommissioner were plainly directed to protecting the Commissionersposition as a creditor in respect of any orders this Court might ultimately makein exercise of the jurisdiction under s 79 of the Act. As earlier discussed,that jurisdiction will not arise unless and until the financial agreement is setaside. InMr Ks affidavit in support of the application, apart from confirming thatthe wife is not indebted to the Commissioner inrespect of any tax liabilities(but apparently ought nevertheless be responsible for the Commissionerscosts of interveninggiven the orders sought to that effect) it is disclosedthat the Commissioner commenced a further audit of the husbands financialaffairs in respect of the years of income 30 June 2003 to 30 June 2010, and thatsuch audit, is continuing. No detailis provided as to the likelytimeframe of that process. Whatappears to be the basis for the Commissioner seeking to intervene is expressedin [17] of Mr Ks affidavit in these terms: Any order made in the proceedings between [the husband] and [the wife], havingthe effect of altering the property of [the husband]so as to reduce it, mayresult in the Commissioner not being able to recover the tax liabilitiespresently owing by [the husband]to the Commonwealth of Australia and payable tothe Commissioner. Plainlythat is a reference to any order under s 79 and it bears repeatingthat no such order can be considered or made unless and until the subjectfinancial agreement is set aside. Counselfor the husband submitted, correctly in my view, that in these circumstances itwas premature for the Commissioner to be grantedleave to intervene to protectthe Commissioners position as a creditor in s 79 proceedings when itremained to be seen whether the financial agreement will be set aside to allowsuch proceedings to be advanced. On26 September 2014 much of the time allocated for hearing of the matter was takenup by negotiations primarily between the husbandand wife, as a result of whichthose parties reached agreement on interim orders to be made, including the formof undertakings tobe given, in support of those interim orders. However,counsel for the Commissioner ultimately advanced submissions on behalf of theCommissioner which significantly departed fromthe orders sought in theCommissioners Application in a Case and thereby foreshadowed to the otherparties in advance of thehearing. Dealingfirstly with the written submissions handed up at the hearing on behalf of theCommissioner, the following was stated to bethe reliefsought: 1. The Intervener wishes to intervene in the proceedings. 2. If the Intervener is successful in that regard the Intervener seeks: a. In the interim, leave to inspect the Court file;and On afinal basis, Orders that will ensure that the debt owed by the husband to theIntervener is paid. TheIntervener intends to better particularise the relief that is sought after theCourt file has been inspected. Again,there is nothing in the written submissions to suggest that the basis for theCommissioner seeking to intervene was anythingother than the Commissionerprotecting his position as a creditor in respect of final orders under s 79, ifthat jurisdiction was to be exercised. However,at the point when proposed interim orders were tendered on behalf of the husbandand wife on their respective undertakings,in oral submissions counsel for theCommissioner asserted that in respect of the financial agreement theCommissioner would, if givenleave to intervene, actively seek to have thefinancial agreement set aside. Further, counsel for the Commissioner sought toadvancean oral application for injunctions (in some unparticularised form) on acontention to the effect that the interim orders and undertakingsas agreedbetween the husband and wife from their negotiations were insufficient for theCommissioners purposes. Counselfor the husband and counsel for the fifth, sixth, ninth and tenth respondentseach objected to the Commissioner by his counselpurporting to advance an oralapplication during the course of the hearing, without advance notice, seekingsome form of interlocutoryinjunctions. Counselfor the fifth, sixth, ninth and tenth respondents submitted that thoserespondents would seek to have an opportunity to considerand address byevidence any particularised form of interlocutory injunctions sought by theCommissioner; and that those respondentswould be prejudiced if not given areasonable opportunity to so do. Likewise, counsel for the husband objected onhis behalf tothe Commissioner advancing an oral application without notice inadvance of the orders to be sought. I accept these submissions. Discussion Thereis nothing particularly contentious in a creditor of a party being entitled tointervene in, or become a party to, s 79 proceedings where an application ismade for an order under s 79 which, if made, may have the effect of the creditornot being able to recover the subject debt. Section 79(10) of the Act expresslyprovides for that and r 6.06 of the Family Law Rules 2004 (theRules) contemplates intervention as of right of such a creditor inrespect of s 79 proceedings in these proceedings. However,in this case and at this stage of the proceedings it remains to be seen, unlessand until the financial agreement is setaside under s 90K of the Act, whetherthe jurisdiction under s 79 will fall to be exercised. The Commissioner, as acreditor ofthe husband, has no relevant interest to protect (as referred to ins 79(10)) unless and until a s 79 order is in contemplation which,if made, mayhave the effect of the Commissioner being unable to recover the subjectdebt. Asto the contention that the Commissioner would seek to have the financialagreement set aside, it is not presently apparent how,in the circumstances ofthis case, the Commissioner would have standing to mount that application. Paragraph(eab) of the definition of matrimonial cause in subsection 4(1) ofthe Act provides: (eab) third party proceedings (as defined insection 4A) to set aside a financial agreement; ... Section4A(1) of the Act provides: (1) For the purposes of paragraph (eab)of the definition of matrimonial cause in subsection 4(1),third party proceedings means proceedings between: (a) any combination of: (i) the parties to a financial agreement; and ... (b) any of the following: (i) a creditor; ... being proceedings for the setting aside of the financial agreement on theground specified in paragraph 90K(1)(aa). Theground specified in paragraph s 90K(1)(aa) is expressedas: (1) A court may make an order setting aside a financial agreement or atermination agreement if, and only if, the court is satisfiedthat: ... (aa) a party to the agreement entered into the agreement: (i) for the purpose, or for purposes that included the purpose, of defrauding ordefeating a creditor or creditors of the party;or (ii) with reckless disregard of the interests of a creditor or creditors of aparty; or ... Leavingaside any argument to the effect that as at the time the financial agreement wasentered into by the parties to the marriagethe Commissioner was not a creditorof the husband; nothing in the limited evidence currently advanced by theCommissioner, or indeedin the material before the Court more generally,supports even an arguable, let alone prima facie case that, given the terms ofthefinancial agreement as earlier outlined, it could be said to have beenentered into by the husband for the purpose expressed in (aa)(i)of s 90K(1) orwith the reckless disregard referred to in subparagraph (aa)(ii) of thatsection. Theclear and obvious intent of these provisions is that a creditor of a party has aright of redress, as a matrimonial cause withinthe Courts jurisdiction,when a financial agreement is entered into by a spouse party for the purpose ofdefrauding or defeatinga creditor or with reckless disregard of acreditors interests. Inthis case the wife seeks to have the financial agreement set aside for theobvious reason that this will, or may, expose the husbandspropertyinterests and financial resources (whatever these are ultimately found toconsist of) to relief by way of adjustment ordersunder s 79. Self-evidently bythis means the wife anticipates a more favourable outcome to her than if thefinancial agreement governsher rights and precludes her from seeking reliefunder s 79. Conversely,the husband obviously resists the setting aside of the financial agreementwhich, by its terms, essentially quarantinesthe property interests andfinancial resources in his name to the husband. Inthese circumstances it has not been made apparent on the Commissionersapplication as to how the Commissioner has an interest,as a creditor solely ofthe husband, in having the financial agreement set aside; submitted to be theCommissioners positionif leave is granted for intervention. Putanother way, it might be accepted that the Commissioner, as a creditor of thehusband, would have a relevant interest in preservingto the husband thebenefits of the financial agreement, given its intended effect of preservingproperty and financial resourcesto the husband. However, theCommissioners stated position is to seek to have the financial agreementset aside, not to upholdit. Inthese circumstances I am not satisfied, on the current state of theevidence: thatthe Commissioners participation as a party is necessary for the Court todetermine the issue as to whether or not thefinancial agreement ought be setaside (within the meaning of r 6.02(1)); thatthe Commissioner is entitled to become a party to the proceedings pursuant to r6.06 and s 79(10) of the Act, unless and untilthe financial agreement is setaside. That is, unless and until the financial agreement is set aside it cannotbe said that thereis an application for an order under that section within themeaning of, and having the potential effect described in, s 79(10); thatwhere the Commissioner would, if given leave to intervene, seek to have thefinancial agreement set aside; it would offend anyprinciple of natural justiceto refuse that leave given that the proceedings between the parties, as theyconcern the setting asideof the financial agreement, involves no claim orcharge or order against the Commissioner; being the primary purpose of s 92(Harris and Harris: Re Banaco Pty Ltd & Ors (1980) FLC90-906). Asto the Commissioner seeking by counsel to mount an oral application for someform of injunctions not particularised, I accept thecontentions of behalf ofthe respondents that no notice was given of such an application given that nosuch application appearedin the Application in a Case filed by theCommissioner. I am satisfied that there is a risk of prejudice to therespondents in havingto meet such an application without such particularisationand without any evidence advanced in support of claims for injunctions. Moreover,this aspect is not addressed in any way in the current evidence relied upon bythe Commissioner, the affidavit of Mr K. I have already noted that beyondestablishing the issue of assessments and notices on 24 August 2012, morethan two years ago, theaffidavit does not address any steps taken by theCommissioner. Of particular significance is that there is no evidencewhatsoeveradvanced to support any accepted bases for the grant of injunctiverelief. For example, evidence of any steps taken by the husbandover the morethan two years that have elapsed since 24 August 2012 to divest himself ofassets. Asto the Commissioner seeking to inspect the Court file, and apparently seekingleave to intervene in the proceedings for that purpose,it is plain thatintervention in the proceedings as a party is not the sole means available tothe Commissioner to perform the Commissionersfunctions. Asrecently referred to by the Full Court in Commissioner of Taxation &Darling and Anor (2014) FLC 93-583 (DarlingsCase) delivered on 4 April 2014 sections 263 and 264 of the IncomeTax Assessment Act 1936 (Cth) provides statutory powers to the Commissioner,unlike other creditors, to exercise compulsive or coercive rights of inspection.However, those statutory powers do not confer unrestricted rights and do notdisplace the rights of the citizens in conducting theiraffairs. As referred toat [124] of Darlings Case by reference to authority, it has beenheld that legal professional privilege restricts the scope of those powers; asdoes publicinterest immunity; and the provisions do not permit an exercise ofpowers that will constitute a contempt of court. Ittherefore does not seem to me that leave to intervene as a party in theseproceedings is necessary to enable the Commissioner toperform its statutoryfunctions insofar as intervention might give the Commissioner access todocuments on the Court file. Indeedit is the case here, as advanced on behalf of the husband, that privilege wouldbe claimed by him with respect to certain documentsalready on the file andwhilst counsel for the Commissioner suggested that certain documents might beexcluded from the Commissionersaccess if leave to intervene weregranted, counsel for the husband submitted that there may well be otherdocuments or aspects ofevidence currently before the Court in respect of whichthe husband would have a valid claim of objection. Indeed that may be thecasefor other respondents. Inmy judgment the Commissioner does not currently establish a legitimate or properbasis for leave being granted to intervene inthe proceedings and it was on thatbasis that at the hearing I adjourned the Commissioners Application forleave to interveneand to deny the oral application for injunctive relief. Further evidence the Commissioner might advance and providing advance noticetothe other parties of any injunctions to be sought if leave to intervene weregranted might alter the position. Itshould be noted that in Darlings Case the Full Court of this Courtproceeded on the basis that the implied obligation articulated by the High Courtin the following wayin Hearne v Street [2008] HCA 36; (2008) 235 CLR 125 at [96]required the Commissioner to obtain leave to use documents obtained from a courtfile: Where one party to litigation is compelled, either by reason of a rule of court,or by reason of a specific order of the court, orotherwise, to disclosedocuments or information, the party obtaining the disclosure cannot, without theleave of the court, use itfor any purpose other than that for which it wasgiven unless it is received into evidence. InDarlings Case the Full Court released the Commissioner of Taxationfrom the implied obligation referred to. Itis a matter of record that on an application for special leave to appeal thatdecision to the High Court of Australia was heardon 15 August 2014. Thetranscript of the hearing of the application for special leave reveals that inrefusing leave the membersof the High Court (Hayne and Kiefel JJ) expresseddoubts as to the application of the implied obligation where the Commissionerexercisespowers under s 263 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936(Cth). Hayne J observed on behalf of their Honours: The conclusions reached by the Full Court of the Family Court of Australiaproceeded from a premise which was not disputed by theparties to theapplication or appeal in that court, namely that the Commissioner of Taxationrequired release from an implied obligationlimiting the use which theCommissioner could make of documents the Commissioner had obtained from theregistry of the Family Courtby exercise of power under s 263 of the IncomeTax Assessment Act 1936 (Cth). The application for special leave requiresacceptance of that premise. The premise is to be doubted. No point suitabletoa grant of special leave is identified. The application for special leave mustbe refused. Irefer to this in case it be suggested by or on behalf of the Commissioner thatthe compulsive or coercive powers conferred by thetaxation legislation wouldlimit the Commissioners use of material obtained by that means in somemanner more restrictivethan if the Commissioner were granted leave to intervenein these proceedings as a party. It would seem to me, at least as a preliminaryview, that the converse is probably true, that is, that the Commissioner maymake use of material obtained from the exercise of itscoercive powers under s263 without requiring the Courts leave but would be subject to theimplied obligation if the Commissioner obtained material asa party to theproceedings before the Court. However, for present purposes I need not expressany concluded view as to this issue. I certify that the precedingsixty-one (61) paragraphs are a true copy of the reasons for judgment of theHonourable Justice Kentdelivered on 22 October2014. Associate: Date: 22 October 2014 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/891.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             