FAMILY LAW  CHILDREN  best interestsof the child  weight to be given to the mental health of the parentseffect of the alternative proposals of the parents  rebuttal ofpresumption of equal shared parental responsibility Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) APPLICANT: Ms Gomez RESPONDENT: Mr Gomez INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: Legal Aid Commission of New South Wales INTERVENOR: Director-General Department of Community Services FILE NUMBER: NCF 587 of 2006 DATE DELIVERED: 30 November 2007 PLACE DELIVERED: Sydney JUDGMENT OF: Justice Rose HEARING DATES: 22, 23, 24 & 25 January 2007; 17, 18 & 19 April 2007; 30 &31 July 2007; 23 August 2007 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: Mr M Graham; Ms D Burns SOLICITOR FOR THE APPLICANT: Mason Solicitors; Craney Solicitors COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENT: Mr P Hartley SOLICITOR FOR THE RESPONDENT: Rod Powe & Co. Lawyers INDEPENDENT CHILDRENSLAWYER: Mr G Levick COUNSEL FOR THE INTERVENOR: Ms E Boyle SOLICITOR FOR THE INTERVENOR: Crown Solicitors Office on behalf of the Director-General Departmentof Community Services ORDERS Thatall current parenting Orders are discharged. Thatthe father have sole parental responsibility for the child of the parties ... born ... April 2001 (the child)AND he shall keep the motherinformed and consult with her from time to time in relation to all majorlong-term issues in relationto the child Thatthe child live with the father forthwith AND that the parties shall note theobligations created by this Order and the parentingOrders made this day AND theconsequences which may follow if a party or person contravenes any of suchorders set forth in the attachedAnnexure A. Thatthe father in the company of the case worker nominated by the intervenor(the case worker) shall forthwith collectthe child from herschool K Public School or such other school as she may be attending AND in theevent that the child is not atschool collect her from the motherspremises ..., K or such other place where the child will be present. Inorder to facilitate Order 3 and Order 4 the mother is restrained fromaccompanying the father and the case worker referred to inOrder 4 other than tofacilitate the father and the case worker meeting the child at themothers house if necessary or asotherwise agreed by the father. Themother shall provide to the father or his nominee the childs clothing andpersonal effects suitably packed as soon as possibleand the case worker shallfacilitate the implementation of this Order. Themother may communicate with the child as follows:- Bytelephone call initiated by the mother to the fathers premises twiceweekly at 5.30pm commencing on Wednesday 5th December2007 at 5.30pm AND the father shall use his best endeavours to ensure that thechild is available to speak to the motherat such time or as soon as possiblethereafter upon the mother having left a message that she has called and forthat purpose thefather shall ensure he has a telephone message answeringservice operational at all times. Onsuch alternative or substituted days and times with such increased frequency asthe father and mother may agree from time to time. Thatthe mother spend the following periods of time with the child:- Atthe Rainbow Childrens Contact Service Newcastle supervised by the Managerof such service or his or her nominee for a periodof two (2) hours eachfortnight commencing on 28 December 2007 or as soon as possible thereafter inaccordance with that Servicescapacity to undertake supervised periods oftime or in the event of it lacking such capacity then such other Contact Serviceas shallbe recommended by the independent childrens lawyer afterconsultation with the intervenor whereupon the father and mothershall benotified by the independent childrenslawyer. (i) That the case guardian for the mother, theindependent childrens lawyer and the intervenor forthwith make allenquiriesand take all steps necessary to ensure that the supervised periods oftime that the mother may spend with the child in accordancewith Order 8(a) cancommence as soon as possible in accordance with that Order. (ii) That the father and mother pay equally the fees (if any) payable to therelevant contact service. Thatat the conclusion of six months of supervised time at the RainbowChildrens Contact Service, the mother provide to theindependentchildrens lawyer a report from her treating psychiatrist that deals withthe mothers current delusionalbeliefs, and her compliance withtreatment. Thatthe mother attend at her expense upon a medical practitioner or pathologist forfortnightly urinalysis screening for illicitsubstances, including heroin, andthat she provide the results of such screening to the independentchildrens lawyer and toher treating psychiatrist for a period of sixmonths from the date of this order. Thatthe independent childrens lawyer be at liberty to forward the results ofthe drug screening referred to in Order 8c) tothe mothers treatingpsychiatrist and the father. Thatat the conclusion of six months of supervised time at the RainbowChildrens Contact Service or substituted service andcontingent upon themother having complied with Order 8b) and 8c) the mother spend unsupervisedperiods of time with the child fora further period of two months for two hourseach alternate Sunday from 11.00am to 1.00pm, unless otherwise agreed orordered. Thatat the conclusion of the further two month period referred to at paragraph 8e)the mother spend time with the child for six hourseach alternate Sunday from10.00am to 4.00pm. Thereafterthe mother spend time with the child from 7.00pm Friday to 4.00pm Sunday eachalternate weekend and for one week in eachschool holiday period as agreed orfailing agreement the first week in each mid-term holiday and from 24 Decemberin even numberedyears and from 3 January in odd numbered years. Thatthe mother spend such alternative or further supervised or unsupervised periodsof time with the child that the father and mothermay agree from time totime. Thatduring the four week period that the child and the mother do not spend timetogether before commencing supervised time togetherat the RainbowChildrens Contact Service the mother be at liberty to forward to thechild cards, letters and gifts, and thefather shall provide the same to thechild PROVIDED they do not refer to the mothers belief that the fatherhas abused themother or the child. Thatthe father encourage and assist the child to communicate with the mother bywriting, drawings and/or photographs and shall forwardthem to the mother. Thatthe father and mother shall ensure that each of them has the otherscurrent landline and/or mobile telephone numbers. Thefather and mother shall immediately inform the other of the details of anyserious illness or injury suffered by the child whilstin his or her care aswell as particulars of all hospital or medical treatment provided to thechild. Thatthe father do all acts and things to ensure that the child commences counsellingwith the local Community Health Service on 7December 2007 or as soon thereafteras possible and that she maintain a counselling process with the practitionerallocated as recommendedby that practitioner. Thatthe father remain a client of the local Family Support Service for a period ofno less than twelve months from today, participatein any course that may bereasonably recommended to him which does not interfere with his parenting timewith the child and accepthome visiting from that Service. Thatthe intervenor or his delegate may make appropriate referrals to the localCommunity Health Service, the local Family SupportService and the RainbowChildrens Contact Service. Thatsealed copies of these Orders shall be provided by the father to the Principalof the K Primary School or other schools thatmay be attended by the child. Thatthe parties or any of them may provide sealed copies of these Orders and thereasons for Judgment given this day to all medicalpractitioners, psychologists,counsellors, professional health services, who either the father or the motherconsult and with whomthe child may be interviewed. Themother is constrained from consuming any illicit drug and prescribed medicationother than as prescribed, and she shall use herbest endeavours to ensure thatno other person consumes any illicit drug in the childs presence. Thatthe mother is restrained from making any derogatory or adverse comment about thefather to the child or in her presence or hearing. Thatthe appointment of the independent childrens lawyer continue for a periodof 12 months from the date of these orders. ThatOfficers of the Australian Federal Police and the New South Wales Police Forceare authorised and requested to provide such assistanceas they are able toprovide to the father for the purpose of ensuring that the child ... born ...April 2001 is delivered into thecare of the father. Thatthe Manager Child Dispute Services at the Newcastle Registry of the Court or hernominee, provide supervision of the parentingorders pursuant Section65L. Procedural Orders Thatall documents produced on subpoena may be returned to the person who producedthe same. Thatthe proceedings be removed from the active pending cases list. IT IS NOTED that publication of this judgment under thepseudonym Gomez & Gomez is approved pursuant to s 121(9)(g) of theFamily Law Act 1975 (Cth) FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT NEWCASTLE File number: NCF587 of 2006 MS GOMEZ Applicant And MR GOMEZ Respondent REASONS FOR JUDGMENT INTRODUCTION Inthese proceedings each of the parties is seeking parenting orders in respect ofthe child of the marriage, 6 years of age havingbeen born in April 2001.(The child). Theapplicant mother seeks orders that all current parenting orders be discharged;that the child live with her and that no provisionbe made for the respondentfather to spend time with the child in accordance with her Amended Applicationfiled 12th January 2007. During the course of hersubmissions counsel for the mother submitted that there should be an order thatthe respondentfather have supervised periods of time with the child inaccordance with Exhibit 16. Therespondent father opposes the orders sought by the mother. He seeks orders thatthe child live with him; that the mother havesupervised periods of time withthe child at the Rainbow Childrens Contact Service for six months, andthereafter supervisedperiods of time subject to certain terms andconditions. Theintervenor, the Director-General Department of Community Services, sought ordersthat the child live with the father upon certainterms and conditions and thatfollowing a period of six weeks from the date of the parenting orders, themother not spend time withthe child, but thereafter have supervised periods oftime with the child at the Rainbow Childrens Contact Service for 12monthsupon certain terms and conditions in accordance with Exhibit 17. Unfortunatelythe proceedings were adjourned by me on two occasions brought about by unusualcircumstances. On the 25th January 2007 I acceded tothe application made by counsel for the mother that the proceedings be adjournedso that an applicationmay subsequently be made on her behalf for theappointment of a case guardian. Ultimately Orders were made. Then on19th April 2007 I acceded to an application joined inby counsel for the parties and the independent childrens lawyer that theproceedings be part-heard to provide an opportunity for the Director-GeneralDepartment of Community Services to seek leave to intervene. After allowing forsuitable time for the Director-General to consider his position application wasmade by him and an Order wasmade unopposed granting leave to intervene. Theparties cohabited for a period of approximately eight months which commencedwhen they married in February 2000. Theparties separated during October 2000 and have lived separate and apart fromeach other continuously since that time. Themarriage was dissolved by a divorce order made in January 2007. Themother lives with the child in her house at K in Newcastle. The child has livedwith the mother since the parties separated. Thefather lives in the Hunter Valley. Themother is 49 years of age and engaged in home duties. Thefather is 61 years of age and is a pensioner. Thefactual issues that have dominated the trial included the mental health of eachof the mother and father; the mothers allegationsthat the father hadphysically abused the child including sexual abuse (ultimately withdrawn). Themother raised issues in termsof unacceptable risk to the child in accordancewith the notations to the Orders made 19th April 2007in terms of:- theeffect on the child of the father having unsupervised periods of time with herdue to the mothers ongoing entrenched beliefthat the father has abusedthe child; and themothers consequential anxiety that she may experience to the disadvantageof the child. HISTORICAL BACKGROUND Thefollowing are further brief relevant historical matters. InFebruary 1987 the mother married Dr I. In1988 the mother alleges that she was sexually assaulted by her medicalpractitioner. In1992 the mother was diagnosed with depression and underwent counselling. InSeptember 1992 the mother separated from Dr I. Their marriage was subsequentlydissolved by decree absolute. In1995 the mother was admitted to a private Hospital in Newcastle due to mentalhealth issues. In1996 the mother suffered a spinal injury. InNovember 1999 the parties met at a private Hospital in Newcastle where each ofthem were patients. InFebruary 2000 following the marriage between the parties they commenced livingtogether in the Hunter Valley. InOctober 2000 following separation of the parties the mother and subsequently thechild have lived in her home at K. Onthe 14th September 2004 upon the application of thefather, there being no appearance by or for the mother, orders were made in theFederalMagistrates Court that the child reside with the mother; that theparties have joint responsibility for the childs long termcare, welfareand development and that the father have contact with the child, initially eachalternate Saturday from 10.00am to4.00pm for eight weeks, and thereafterincreasing overnight periods each alternate weekend with further extendedperiods of timeduring school term once the child commences school, as well asduring school holidays. Further ancillary orders were made. On7th November 2005 when both parties were representedorders were made varying the orders made 14th September2004 providing for the father to have contact with the child on threeconsecutive Saturdays from 10.00am until 5.00pm commencing12th November 2005. On8th May 2006 the father filed an application forcontravention orders. On13th September 2006 the fathers application forcontravention was adjourned. Orders were made that the child be separatelyrepresented;that the parties engage in reportable counselling; that previousorders for contact were suspended and that the father have supervisedcontactwith the child in the presence of a Family Consultant at the Courtspremises. In addition the proceedings were transferredto this Court. On16th November 2006 a Registrar made orders by consentproviding for the appointment of Dr R, Psychiatrist, as the Court expert for thepurpose of preparing a report in relation to these proceedings. On22nd to 25th January 2007 thetrial proceeded before me. The trial was adjourned part-heard following leavehaving been granted to the motherslegal representatives to withdrawhaving been informed by them and the independent childrens lawyer thatapplication wouldbe made for the appointment of a case guardian for themother. On13th February 2007 I ordered by consent that Ms D beappointed Case Guardian for the mother. An order was made requiring the ManagerChildDispute Services Newcastle Registry to prepare and provide an updatedFamily Report in relation to occasions of supervised time spentby the childwith the father. Directions were made. On15th March 2007 I made orders by consent that theappointment of the case guardian made 13th February2007 be set aside and that in her stead Ms W was appointed case guardian for themother in the proceedings. 17thto 19th April 2007 the part-heard trial continued. On19th April 2007 upon application being made by thelegal representatives for the parties and the independent childrenslawyer thetrial was adjourned for directions to take place on3rd May 2007 to enable appropriate notice to be givento the Secretary NSW Department of Community Services so that considerationcouldbe given as to whether or not an application may be made by theDepartmental Secretary to intervene in accordance with Section 92(A). Aninterim order was made requiring the parties to ensure that the child continuedto spend supervised time with the father in accordancewith the orders made25th January 2007. The following notations were madeinter alia: NOTATIONS: Themother no longer seeks findings in relation to alleged child abuse includingsexual abuse having been perpetrated by the father. Themother seeks findings of unacceptable risk to the child in termsof: theeffect on the child of the father having unsupervised periods of time with herdue to the mothers ongoing entrenched beliefthat the father has abusedthe child; and themothers consequential anxiety that she may experience to the disadvantageof the child. Thatamongst the principal issues remaining for determination at the conclusion ofthe hearing include but are not limited to: thecapacity of each of the parties to provide for the emotional needs of the childdue to their respective mental health issues; thewillingness of the mother to facilitate and encourage the time to be spent bythe father with the child on an unsupervisedbasis. Themother indicated through counsel that she will consult Dr [V], psychiatristwithin the next fortnight or as soon as he is availableas arranged on themothers behalf by the case guardian AND the mother will further consulthim in accordance with his recommendations. Themother will take the child to Ms [P] of [...] to evaluate whether furthertherapy for the child is required and the appointmentis to be arranged by thecase guardian on the mothers behalf. On3rd May 2007 I granted leave to the Director-GeneralNew South Wales Department of Community Services to intervene in theproceedings. Directions were made. On6th July 2007 further directions were made. 30thand 31st July 2007 the trial continued. It wasadjourned part-heard for submissions on 23rd August2007. Further interim orders were made as follows: ITIS ORDERED: Thatthe child of the parties [...] (the child) born [...] April 2001live with the mother upon the following termsandconditions: (a) The mother not consume any illicit substanceor drug. (b) The mother use her best endeavours to ensure that no other person whoeither occupies or visits the premises in which she residesconsumes any illicitsubstance or drug. (c) The mother attend drug screening urine analysis twice a week conducted byeither Dr [V], psychiatrist, or his nominee, the firstoccasion to take place onor before Friday, 3 August 2007. (d) The mother authorise and request Dr [V] or the manager or proper officerof the laboratory at which the drug screen analysis takesplace to furnish theindependent childrens lawyer with a report in relation to each drugscreen analysis that occurs. (e) The mother by her solicitors forthwith provide to the independentchildrens lawyer a copy of the authority and requestthe subject of theseOrders. (f) Officers under the direction of the Director-General of New South WalesDepartment of Community Services may conduct random homevisits at themothers premises between the hours of 9.00am and 5.00pm for the purposeof inspecting and ensuring that theaccommodation facilities and carearrangements for the child provided by the mother are adequate and such visitsdo not include participationby Ms [D]. (g) The mother ensure that the child punctually attends school on a dailybasis subject to any serious illness or injury which shallbe certified ashaving occurred which would prevent the child attending school as certified by amedical practitioner. (2) That the current order for periods of time that may be spent by thefather with the child is suspended until further order. (3) Liberty to the parties to apply for any further urgent parenting ordersor directions upon two working days written notice beinggiven. On23rd August 2007 submissions were made by counsel. Onthe 23rd November 2007 I made Interlocutory Orders ofmy own motion in Chambers in anticipation of Judgment being given and Ordersbeing madeon 30th November 2007. I made those Ordersfor the purpose of providing professional assistance to the father and mother inthe event thatwas required. Such assistance could only be in the bestinterests of the child in terms of assisting the mother and father to implementthe final orders that may be made in the most child focussed manner possible. Those orders were:- 1. That the applicant mother andrespondent father attend Court 4 at the Newcastle Registry at 2.15pm Friday30 November 2007. Thatthe Manager Child Dispute Services or in her absence a Family Consultantnominated by her or the Registry Manager of the NewcastleRegistry attend Courtin accordance with Order 1 for the purpose of providing counselling to theapplicant mother and respondentfather. Thatthe intervenor use his best endeavours to ensure that there is a Departmentalcase worker present at Court 4 at the NewcastleRegistry as provided in Order 1to supervise the implementation of the parenting orders which will be made at2.15pm Friday 30 November 2007. RELEVANT LEGAL PRINCIPLES Section60CA of the Family Law Act 1975 as amended (the Act)makes it clear that in deciding whether or not to make a parenting order inrelation to a child: A Court must regard the bestinterests of the child as the paramount consideration. Thatprovision is re-emphasised in section 65AA. Forthe purpose of determining what is in the childs best interests I amrequired to consider the matters in sections 60CC(2) and 60CC(3). In thecourse of doing so, I should also consider the matters in section 60B,which set out the Objects of the provisions of Part VII of the Act in relationto the child and the principles that underlie those Objects. In substance, theyinclude the benefit to thechild of its parents having: ameaningful involvement in their lives, to the maximum extent consistent withthe best interests of the child; protection of children from physical orpsychological harm as a result of being subjected to, or exposed to, abuse,neglect orfamily violence; ensuring that children receive adequate and properparenting to assist in them achieving their full potential andensuring parentsfulfilling their duties and meeting their responsibilities concerning the care,welfare and development of theirchildren. {emphasis added} Theprinciples underlying those Objects, in summary, include: (a) a childhaving the right to know and be cared for by both parents; (b) a childhaving a right to spend time with and communicate with both parents and othersignificant persons on a regular basis; (c) the jointsharing by parents of duties and responsibilities in relation to theirchild; (d) theimperative for parties to agree about future parenting of a child; and (e) thechilds right to enjoy their culture including with others who share thatculture. Itis important to note that s 60B(2) provides an important exceptionto the principles underlying the Objects to which I have referred. Thatexception is when it is or would be contrary to a childsbest interests {emphasis added}. To that extent, the recentlegislative amendments to the Act in relation to a child continue what hassometimesbeen described as the over-archingprinciple[1],namely that the best interests of a child is the paramount consideration and thefinding of fact in that regard that is requiredfor the purpose of making aparenting order. Iam then required to evaluate all relevant issues and the facts in relation tothe same in order to reach a conclusion, which isin the best interests of thechild, the subject of theseproceedings.[2] RELEVANT MATTERS PURSUANT TO SECTION 60CC Section60CC(1) makes it clear that for the purpose of determining what is inthe childs best interests I am required to consider what aredescribed as primary considerations as well asadditionalconsiderations.[3]The exception is found in section 60(5) where an order is sought byconsent. For obvious reasons, that is not relevant in theseproceedings. Theprimary considerations are: (a) the benefit to the childof having a meaningful relationship with both of the childs parents;and (b) the need to protect the child from physical or psychological harm frombeing subjected to, or exposed to, abuse, neglect or familyviolence.[4] Forthe purpose of the primary considerations, it is necessary to make findings offact without which the conclusions which must bereached cannot be achieved. That will involve findings in relation to one or more of the discrete mattersthat are described asadditional considerations in order tobe the substratum of facts or factual platform for the purpose of theprimary considerations. Fortunately,the second primary consideration is not relevant in theseproceedings.[5] Consequently,I propose to make findings of fact in relation to matters that are signposted insection 60CC(3) to the extent to which they are relevant in theseproceedings. Those findings of fact will then be referred to by me in myconclusionsin respect of both primary considerations andadditional considerations for the purpose of the ultimatedetermination of the best interests of the two children and the parenting ordersthat will be made. Views expressed by the child and other relevant factors Eachof the parents gave evidence suggesting that the views of the child were thatshe wants to spend time with that particular parentexcept that so far as themother is concerned her evidence is to the effect that the child does not wantto spend time with the father. Independentevidence was given by Dr R psychiatrist, the Court appointed expert. Dr R gavedetailed written and oral evidence andwas extensively examined by counsel forthe parties in relation to all relevant aspects of his evidence including hisopinions andconclusions. Dr R gave consistent and well-reasoned evidence duringthe course of which he was prepared to take into account a rangeofconsiderations and provide in my view, sensitive, professional views. I foundhim to be an impressive witness and I accept thetotality of his evidence aswill appear from this judgment unless otherwise stated. In Exhibit 3 he recordsthat the child appearedto be too young to express a clear view. He alsoprovided the opinion that the child is closely attached to and has a strong bondwith the mother but also has a bond with the father. MsL, Family Consultant, provided reports in relation to her supervision of periodsof time spent by the father with the child. Thosereports are dated19th October 2005, 16thNovember 2006 and 12th April 2007 and are Exhibits 1, 2and 5 respectively. However, whilst those reports are relevant to therelationship between the fatherand the child they did not directly orindirectly deal with this particular subject matter. That was to be expectedgiven the purposeof the supervised periods of time between the father and thechild. Ihave concluded that the child has a view that can be inferred from Dr Rsfindings regarding the bond between the child andeach of the parents that thechild would like to spend periods of time with each of them. However for thereasons explained by DrR the matter was not investigated anyfurther. The nature of the relationship of the child with each of the parties and otherpersons DrR provided his opinion in relation to the close attachment and bond between thechild and the mother and the significant bond betweenthe child and the fatherto which I have earlier referred and otherwise as set out in Exhibit 3. Iaccept Dr Rs conclusionsin relation to those matters for which there waslittle if any challenge. Indeed no submissions to the contrary were made. Thefather has spent irregular and limited periods of time with the child. He hadfiled a contravention application. The motherhas claimed that the child didnot want to go with the father and reported that she had been abused byhim. Relevantto the issue of the relationship between the child and the father are Exhibits1, 2 and 5 to which earlier reference hasbeen made. Exhibit1 is the report in relation to the four sessions of supervised periods of timebetween the father and the child which tookplace on19th September, 22ndSeptember, 10th October and17th October 2005. Apart from some contrary behaviourby the child to the father initially in the first session it appeared that thesummary and conclusions contained in Exhibit 1 are reliable. The FamilyConsultant noted that the sessions went very well and despite [thechild]s initial reservations she quickly settled into a comfortablerelationship withher father. Exhibit2 contained a report in relation to the supervised periods of time between thefather and the child which took place on 22ndSeptember, 29th September,13th October and 3rdNovember2006. The Family Consultant summarised those sessions as occasionswhere the child was becoming more aggressive and hostiletowards the father. Sofar as the Family Consultant was concerned it appeared that the child had eitherbeen subjected to abusefrom the father or had been negativelyinfluenced by her mother, her view of the father. I will makesubsequent reference to this matter. Exhibit5 reported upon the supervised periods of time between the father and the childwhich took place on 9th February,2nd March, 23rd March and11th April 2007. In substance it appeared that thechild enjoyed herself in various ways with the father whilst at other timesmakingnegative comments to him. TheFamily Consultant also gave oral evidence. Her evidence did not depart from thesubstance of Exhibits 1, 2 or 5. I accept thetotality of her evidenceincluding Exhibits 1, 2 and 5 and make findings accordingly. Ifind that the evidence of Ms L, Family Consultant, supports the conclusion of DrR so far as the bond between the father and thechild is concerned. Exhibit4 comprises a proof of evidence of Mr B dated 23rdJanuary 2007. Exhibit4 provides Mr Bs evidence that a past intimate relationship between themother and him ceased in 1999. In December1999 he commenced to reside in themothers premises at K. He has remained residing there since that time asa boarder. Themother returned to live in the premises in about October2000. MrB further states that he and the mother are good friends and he proposes tocontinue to reside as a boarder at her premises. MrB states that he has known the child since she was born, has had a relationshipwith her since that time. The child refers tohim as[...]. He cares for her from time to time and engages inactivities with her at a park or the beach. Duringthe course of his cross-examination Mr B reiterated the substance of Exhibit 4in relation to this particular matter. I accepthis evidence. It was given ina reliable and consistent way. I find that the child has a fond relationshipwith Mr B. InExhibit 3 Dr R referred to his interview with Ms F. Ms F, a friend of thefather, whom she had met in 1999. Some time after herhusbands deaththeir relationship had progressed to an intimate one. Dr R observed that MsFs presentation was thatof a pleasant person. MsF swore an affidavit on the 28th July 2006 andsubsequently was cross-examined. Ms F is self-employed with a factory in theHunter Valley where she lives. Ms F hasthree children who at the time ofswearing her affidavit were aged 23, 20 and 15 years respectively. A goodrelationship has developedbetween the father and each of her children duringthe course of which the father has provided both practical and emotional supportfor Ms F and her three children after the death of Ms Fs husband. MsF has observed the child at the fathers home on many occasions, seen themtogether when the child was helping the fatherin his garden and at other timesplaying with her. Ms F has also observed them together at market day and whenthe father has takenthe child on pony rides. Ms F has also heard the childrefer to the father in an excited way as he is mydaddy. Duringthe course of her oral evidence Ms F stated that whilst she considers that sheand the father are partners they maintain their separatehouses but see each other each day for varying periods of time including four toseven nights a weekat the home of either of them. MsF further gave evidence that she sees herself as providing emotional support forthe father and being his back-up person. MsF stated that she has an expectation that the child may suffer anxiety if thechild commenced to live with the father and she iswilling to provide emotionalsupport for the child and the father. Ms F emphasised that that is the rolewhich she is willing toprovide whenever required by the father and/or thechild, but will continue to live in her own home and will not assume a motherrole for the child. MsF stated that she has observed the father when he was not well emotionally inthat he has become withdrawn from communication. From her observations that hasoccurred three or four times in six years lasting for a period of three to fourdays the last occasionbeing shortly prior to the resumption of the hearing inJuly 2007 and previously during July or August 2006. Iaccept the evidence of Ms F who impressed me as an intelligent and sensitiveperson who gave her evidence in a direct and unequivocalmanner. I find that MsF has a limited relationship with the child given that it has only occurred inthe circumstances where MsF has been in the company of the father and the childin the Hunter Valley. Nonetheless, as a result of her evidence which I haveaccepted, I find that she is an appropriate person to provide positive andhelpful emotional support for the father and/or the childin the event of thechild living with the father or spending periods of time withhim. The willingness and ability of each of the parties to facilitate and encourage aclose and continuing relationship between the childand the other party Thereis no issue raised in relation to this matter so far as the father wasconcerned. I find that he does have the willingnessand ability to facilitatethe relationship the subject of this particular matter. Itis not a matter of controversy that the mother is opposed to facilitating andencouraging a close and continuing relationship betweenthe child and the fatherdue to her entrenched and unshakeable belief that the father has physicallyabused the child. The basisfor that finding is not only her own evidence, butthe evidence of Dr R and Dr V, psychiatrists, whose evidence I accept. Theonly qualification to the mothers belief to which I have referred is thatshe may begrudgingly accept that the child spendsupervised periods of time withthe father in similar circumstances to those that have occurred whereby thesupervisor was a FamilyConsultant at the Newcastle Registry of theCourt. Practical difficulty and expense of a child spending time with and communicatingwith a parent and the effect on the childsright to maintain personalrelations and direct contact with both parents on a regular basis Themother resides in Newcastle and the father in the Hunter Valley area. Thefather travels between both places by motor vehicleand the travelling time isapproximately two and a half hours. He has modest financial circumstances andthe expense of travel isan issue at times. Themothers capacity to drive is limited at times due to the medication thatshe periodically takes as is evidenced by Exhibit6. Otherwise travel by traincan be utilised. The capacity of each of the parties and any other person to provide for theneeds of the child including emotional and intellectualneeds Therewas no issue raised in relation to the capacity of each of the parties toprovide for the physical needs of the child, notwithstandingthe earlierallegations made by the mother that the father had engaged in physical abuse ofthe child including sexual abuse. Asis apparent from the notations made by consent on 19thApril 2007 those allegations were no longer pursued nor was an allegation madethat there was an unacceptable risk of the fatherabusing the child as referredto in the last preceding paragraph. Rather the mothers case was alteredin order to raise issuesof the unacceptable risk to the child of a differentkind as referred to in the notations to the Orders made19th April 2007 earlier described. Itis common ground that each of the parties historically and currently have had,and continue to have, mental health issues. Theevidence in relation to thoseissues in respect of each of the parties is critical to the capacities that eachof them has to providefor the emotional needs of the child, quite apart fromother matters such as the nature of the relationship that the child has witheach of them and the likely effect upon the child of a separation from themother with whom she has lived all her life. I will proceedto provide a reviewof the evidence in relation to the mental health of each of the parties and myfindings based on that evidence. Mental health of the mother Themothers treating psychiatrist Dr V gave evidence. Initially he wascalled to give evidence in support of an applicationmade on behalf of themother by her then counsel that a case guardian be appointed for the mother inthese proceedings. Areport dated 24th January 2007 from Dr V to theindependent childrens lawyer became Exhibit 13. In addition Dr Vprovided a certificate dated28th February 2006 inrelation to the effect upon the mothers driving ability of medicationthat she was then taking for depressionand anxiety. Themother has been a patient of Dr V since 2000. His diagnosis is schizo effectivedisorder. He stated that the mother had psychosisinitially associated withdepression. DrV stated that the mother believed that there had been numerous occasions duringwhich the child had been sexually assaulted implicitlyby the father. Othercomplaints to Dr V in that regard were consistent over a period of time. Thecomplaints were unchanged. Hestated that the mother had a history of similarproblems in past relationships where certain allegations have also been made ofthenature that would lead me to believe that there is a continuing pattern overa number of years in relation to this type of allegation. Inrelation to the same matter Dr Vs evidence also was that so far as he wasconcerned the allegations that she has given would appear bizarre andunlikely to have happened, thats certainly my opinion, andtherefore thatleads to whether she is delusional in her beliefs. Theallegations referred to are those made by her that thefather had physically abused the child including sexual abuse. Withregard to the symptoms of the mothers disorder, in Exhibit 13 Dr Vexpressed the view that those symptoms are not as aresult of substance abuseand as a consequence would need to exclude her concurrent heroin abuseat various periods in the mothers illness. Exhibit13 provided Dr Vs observations that there had been asignificant improvement in various aspects of her symptomatology when she wasnot involved in substance abuse and was compliantwith taking the prescribedmedication of a combination of anti-depressant and anti-psychotic medicationhowever there was some residualthought process disturbance and perceptualimpairment in relation to the current proceedings. Inrelation to Dr Vs description of the mothers allegations of childabuse by the father there were difficulties interms of her giving instructionsto her lawyers. Duringthe course of Dr Vs oral evidence on 31st July2007 he stated that he is continuing his treatment of the mother and to supporther in her parenting role and managing dailystress. The medication has beencontinued which has been a combination of anti-psychotics and anti-depressants. Her major problemscontinue to revolve around the Court proceedings, themothers allegations of implicit abuse of the child by the father, andstress as a result of her feeling demonised by Dr [R]sreport. Dr V considered that certainly there is nohealing in terms of her belief that her daughter will be molested again by herfather and that she willnever feel right for allowing him to have the childovernight and that it will just be so difficult for her to do that. DrV was aware that the mother had again been recently using heroin which has adeteriorating effect on her mental state. He statedthat the mother was of theview that it alleviates her stress. In his opinion there is always adeterioration, it always accentuates the condition and the ideation that goeswith it against her husbandand the demonised, victimised those sorts offeelings. Dr V was of the view that the mothers mental statewould not assist her parenting ability. The childs reported numerousabsences from school in 2006 and in 2007 and not attending to homework would beconsistent with the mothers mental state ofbeing disorganised. Themother has a history of substance abuse involving the use of heroin over anumber of years. The medical notes suggested thatthe mothers use ofheroin was usually in association with the boarder that she lives withand then they try and stop the use. When he goes away and works they stop theuse andwhen he comes back, I suppose its a bit like a reward, and thenthey start using again. He considered that the mother has been arecurrent heroin user since his commencement of his treatment of the mother in2000. Thereference to the boarder refers to Mr B a friendof the mother who has been living in her home for a considerable period of time.He gave evidence in theproceedings to which I will make reference. Themothers use of heroin has been on a daily basis for the periods of timethatshe uses it. Those periods may be two to four times a year. The episodesare calculated in months to which I have earlier referred. InDr Vs opinion the medication prescribed for the mother is not going to beas effective during those periods that she usesheroin. As a consequence theresult for the mother is to allow the schizo effective condition to bemore symptomatic and have more control over [the mothers] thoughts andactions and behaviour. Dr V stated that there is an unavailabilityof medications which would impact upon the mother at the same level as heroindoes. He considered that it was likely that the mother would resort to heroinin the future at times of stress. DrV stated that if an order was made that the child spend unsupervised time withthe father or reside with him then it is likelyto have a catastrophic effectupon the mother. DrV also stated that whilst the finalisation of the litigation would result in animprovement in the mothers mental healthin the short term there had beena history of relapses. Court proceedings were not the only stressor. Withregard to the effectupon the mother of supervised periods of time spent by thefather with the child, he qualified his evidence by saying that the mothermightstill use heroin, her organisational skills in relation to the child attendingschool and doing homework are disturbing matters. Iaccept the evidence of Dr V. It was given in a clear fashion, notwithstandingthe difficulties that he was obviously experiencingas the motherstreating psychiatrist. He recognised all of the grey areas in relation to themothers current mentalhealth and likely ongoing health problems withappropriate qualification when required. I found his evidence to be of muchassistanceand I make findings in accordance with it. DrR, psychiatrist, the single expert provided by the Court provided a report dated22nd December 2006 which became Exhibit 3. He also gaveoral evidence on both the 18th April 2007 and30th July 2007. Withregard to Exhibit 3 Dr V made it clear in his report dated24th January 2007, Exhibit 13, that having read Exhibit3 he agrees with the diagnosis of the mother as having a schizo effectivedisorderwhich has included bouts of disabling depression anddisturbed thought process involving distorted perceptions and irrationalreasoning. Dr V further concluded that in relation to Exhibit 3 eachappeared to be an unbiased and accurate documentation of pastincidents and contains appropriate insights into [the mothers]symptomatology. Exhibit3 pages 5 and 6 is a record of the account given by the mother to Dr R of herallegations of disturbing abuse including sexualabuse that the father caused tothe child. Dr R noted that describing those events the motherappeared unconcerned and calm. There was no sign of any distress oralarm. Dr R concluded that the mothers ideas in relation tothe child being sexually abused appeared to be over valued. Sheseemed to accept the statements that she had elicited from [the child] anddidnt appearto have the ability to discern or interpret some of thechilds statements. She also didnt appear to have insight intothebizarre nature of the claims that the child had been anally raped and smeared infaeces. Duringthe course of his summary in relation to the mothers mental health, Dr Ralso expressed the opinion that he had major concernsregarding the mothers ability to parent the child at asophisticated level, notwithstanding that she had complied withtreatment and follow-up. He was of the view that the mother had verypoor insight into the childs needs. Theneeds were in the context of the childs emotionalneeds. However,Dr R also expressed the opinion that the mother has a close relationship withthe child who is closely bonded with her andthat the mothersimmediate care of the child appears to be adequate. DrR pressed his conclusion that the mother had significant negativesymptoms of mental illness. He was concerned that there had not beenany change to the mothers propensity for delusional ideas,notwithstanding thatshe had been treated with a particular anti-psychoticmedication. Duringthe course of his oral evidence Dr R confirmed that he had listened to an audiotape recording of the childs statementsof the fathers allegedabuse of her. That audio tape together with transcript is Exhibit 7. There wasno issue that thetape recording was made by the mother at her home. DrR expressed the view that the mother appeared to have contrived in ensuring thatthe child made the statements which are referredto on the audio tape, as onemight have expected the child might have been distressed, yet she was laughingand giggling. He consideredit alarming that the child should make suchstatements in a contrived way. DrR stated that in his opinion it was extraordinary that the mother would thinkthat it was in the childs best interest tomake and record suchstatements. That demonstrated a lack of insight by the mother by involving thechild in the mothersextreme believes vis a vis the father. He was ofthe view that the mothers belief system is chronic and that the mothergenuinelyheld such beliefs reflected in her allegations of child abuse againstthe father. DrR expressed the opinion that whilst the child may not be affected in theshort-term there were serious potential long-term effectsupon the childincluding sexualised behaviour and also affecting her relationship with each ofthe parties as well as her peer group. Duringthe course of his oral evidence given on 30th July 2007Dr R emphasised that his diagnosis of the mother followed a full assessment ofher. His conclusions were that the mothersdisorder represented achronic condition which was very disabling and that her fixed delusions wererepresentative of a serious mentalillness. DrR changed his earlier opinion expressed in Exhibit 3 and previous oral evidencethat in the short term the mother was able to provideadequate care for thechild. His new opinion was that given a combination of the circumstancessurrounding, as well as the contentof Exhibit 7, (audio-tape), and what heregarded as being an extraordinary number of absences of the child from schoolreportedlyfor illnesses during 2006 and 2007, and the manner in which themother has been involving the child further in the mothersdelusionalbeliefs, have resulted in him concluding that there should be an immediatechange so far as the child living with themother and moving to live with thefather. Onthe basis of the evidence of Dr V and Dr R psychiatrists I find that the mothersuffers from a serious mental illness the diagnosisbeing schizo effectivedisorder. The disorder is also associated with depression and an aspect of thatdisorder is the motherschronic and entrenched belief that the father hasphysically abused the child including sexual abuse. The mothers beliefswere not contrived but genuinely held by her. Inaddition the mother has been a user of heroin for varying periods of time overseveral years which has exacerbated the manifestationof herillness. Mental health of the father Thefather had been in the Defence Force for eight years until 1971. During thecourse of his service he had two tours of duty inVietnam. His subsequentoccupation included working in mines for a period of approximately 15 years. That employment involved highrisk work. The history that he gave to Dr R wasthat he saw people killed in the mines as well as in Vietnam. In 1990 he wasplacedon a TPI pension. He continues to receive it. InExhibit 3 Dr R provides a diagnosis of the father. He concluded that he had ahistory of depression. In addition he consideredthat the father had featuresof post-traumatic stress disorder. He also expressed the view that the fatherhad been functioning well for many years. Exhibit11 contains a Private Hospital from Newcastle file in relation to the father. The father was a patient at the Hospital apparentlydue to episodes ofdepression. On25th October 1999 a social work assessment wasprovided. The history taken by the social worker was that the father had a goodrelationshipwith his four children from his first marriage. He had previouslyhad business and alcohol related problems. The fatherscontention wasthat he had ceased consumption of alcohol some years previously and hadturned his life around previously being near suicidal. Heis now engaged in yoga, meditation and volunteer work. Exhibit11 also contains two psychiatric reports of Dr V dated23rd August 1999 and 13thDecember 1999 in relation to the father who was his patient. The first of thosereports recommended that the father participatein the post-traumatic stressdisorder programme. The second report stated that the father was now assistinghis mother who had deterioratingmemory and the father had completed a course inpalliative care. He noted that whilst the father had suffered from periodicdepressionhe had benefited from meditation, yoga and abstinence from alcohol. Theevidence of both the father and Ms F is that there have been times when thefather has withdrawn and has been uncommunicativefor a few days as a result ofdepression. I accept their evidence and in particular that of Ms F that theseoccasions have been relativelyfew over the past six years although they haveoccurred twice during the currency of the litigation between the partiesincludingin about the middle of 2007. Inthe course of his oral evidence Dr R expressed the opinion that the father islikely to manage well if he has adequate support,the fathers care of thechild is concerned. Dr R acknowledged that the father has some limits to hisinsight so far as thechild is concerned but would be quite accepting of helpand guidance. DrR also expressed the opinion that he does not regard the father ashaving a serious mental illness, certainly in terms of what the mother issuffering from. The fatherhas some chronic adjustment problems that at timesmay become more difficult than others, but generally speaking he is able tofunctionadequately and cope with life and is much closer to the normal streamof psychological and emotional problems with the normal population. In that regard Dr R drew a comparison with the mother that in his opinion herillness is such that it seriously impairs her ability to function oreven be able to think logically and cannot be reasoned with. Sofar as the father is concerned Dr R was of the view that he is able toanticipate if he is starting to not function well and then be able toorganise for help as needed. He again drew a comparison with themother in that in his opinion she did not have that ability and thatshe is not able to understand that she is mentally ill and is not ableto cope. Inaccordance with the evidence of Dr R which I have accepted I find that thefather continues to have features of post-traumaticstress disorder amelioratedfor a considerable period of time. Dr Rs opinion is that the father hasbeen functioning well for many years. He has isolatedepisodes of withdrawal by lack of communication in the face of stress with whichhe has not been able to cope towhich I have made reference. However, he hasthe continuing support of Ms F. The difficulties that he may experiencein that regard are unlikely to happen spontaneously and as a result he has thecapacityto seek assistance. There are suitable professional medical servicesavailable to him the subject of his evidence which I accept. Eachof the parties has the capacity to provide for the physical needs of the child. Indeed no submission to the contrary was made. Asfar as the mothers capacity to provide for the intellectual needs of thechild, the mother has demonstrated disturbing difficulties. Exhibit 14 containsthe student records in relation to the child for 2006 and 2007. Whilst theDecember 2006 school report recordsthat the child in her kindergarten year madepleasing progress yet in relation to her attendance thereis the note many unexplained absences first and second term very oftenlate arriving. IndeedExhibit 14 records that the child had 52 absences in 2006 which may include somedays when she arrived late and a further 32absences in 2007 for the first halfof the year. Ifind that the father has the capacity to provide for the intellectual needs ofthe child. He has made enquiries for enrolment ofthe child in the localprimary school. There is no evidence to suggest that his capacity in thatregard is compromised in any way. The likely effect of any changes in the childs circumstances includingthe likely effect on the child of separation from eitherof her parents or anyother person with whom she has been living Inthe event of the child ceasing to live with the mother the child is likely toexperience anxiety, grief, and the transition tolive with the father may atleast in the early stage be traumatic for her. Onthe other hand should the child remain living with the mother there are likelyto be serious detrimental effects upon her so faras her emotional developmentis concerned and the relationship with her father. In that regard Dr R changedthe opinion that heexpressed in Exhibit 3 in which he stated his opinionthere are major concerns about the mothers long-term parentingcapacity. She appears to be able to meet her physicaland emotional and socialneeds at the present time. However, I believe that she would not be able tocontinue doing this for thelong-term future. The change of opinionwas in relation to the mothers capacity to meet the childs needsat the present time. I have earlier referred to hisevidence in that regard which I accepted as the reasons for the substantialchange in his opinion. DrRs evidence was that the mother was a seriously mentally ill parent whowas not capable of providing appropriate care forthe child. DrR expressed the opinion that should the child live with the mother it wasessential for the child to have a relationship with thefather. The apparentlyinsurmountable difficulty in that regard stemmed from the mothers mentalillness, her chronic and entrenchedbelief that the father had physically abusedthe child, including sexual abuse, which both Dr R and Dr V regarded asrepresentingbizarre allegations. Notwithstanding appropriate psychiatricconsultations and treatment, the mothers genuinely held beliefshad notaltered. Implicitly, there was no sign that they would alter. Theimportant likely effect upon the child as a result of no longer living with themother, but living with the father, is that itwould enhance her emotionaldevelopment, as according to Dr R the more time the child has with thefather or a healthy adult the better. Recognisingthat the child may have grief and anxiety from being separated from the mother,Dr Rs evidence was that on theother hand it would be a sense of relieffor the child from the pressure that the child has been under in the course ofliving withthe mother. Sofar as the fathers capacity to care for the child on a daily basis, Dr Rin his oral evidence stated that the father didnot have a serious mentalillness and that generally he is able to function adequately. By contrast, hewas of the view that themother qualitatively has a serious and differentillness which includes her ability to function or think logically and cannot bereasoned with. DrR was of the firm view that the father was likely to manage should he haveadequate support, that the father was quite acceptingof the desirability forhelp and guidance given that he has some limitations to his insight so far asthe childs needs wereconcerned. Iaccept the evidence of Ms D, a case worker in the employ of the intervenor, inrelation to the nature and extent of the relevantservices that are availablefor the father to assist him care for the child and generally in his support. Iaccept the evidenceof the father in relation to the enquiries that he has madewith regard to professional services that are available for his supportand hiswillingness to utilise them. Inaddition, the father will have the support of Ms F whose evidence I haveaccepted and made findings based on such evidence earlierdescribed in thisjudgment. Thereare other likely beneficial effects on the child of a change in hercircumstances whereby she ceases to live with the motherand instead lives withthe father. The mother has a history of using illicit drugs particularly heroinover several years. Theevidence which I accept is that she has taken heroin toassist her in alleviating stress, or pain that she may be experiencing atanygiven time, although she is not a daily user. The mother was recalled to givefurther evidence during the last days of the hearingbefore all of the evidencewas concluded. During the course of that evidence the mother stated that shehad resumed using heroinbut that she would shortly cease using it. Itfurther emerged in the course of the mothers evidence that Mr B had notonly used heroin from time to time whilst the twoof them were residing in themothers home, but that he facilitated the supply of heroin to her. Iaccept the mothersevidence regarding her use of heroin and its supply toher. I do not accept her evidence that she will cease to use it, other thanperhaps temporarily. Her history in that regard for several years demonstratesthat use of heroin has often reoccurred after intervalswhen she apparently wasnot using it. Expert evidence in that regard was given by Dr V which Iaccept. Consequently,a likely further effect upon the child of ceasing to live with the mother isthat she will not be in the daily parentalcare of the mother who has a historyof heroin use including using it of very recent times. In addition, thechilds carewill no longer be provided by Mr B who also has a history ofheroin use, quite apart from the alarming circumstance of him havingsupplied itto the mother from his own sources. Thechild has had a disturbing number of absences and/or late arrivals at schoolduring 2006 and 2007 the subject of earlier findings. I have no evidence tosuggest that the father will do anything other than ensure that the childpromptly attends school, is ableto receive an education uninterrupted by schoolabsences, other than of course any illness or unforeseen circumstances. Thechild will also have an opportunity to develop a healthy relationship with thefather supported by Ms F in an appropriate environment. In contrast to themother, there is no evidence to suggest that the father will or is likely toengage in any conduct that is calculatedto or may alienate the child from themother. The circumstances that were created by the mother resulting in thechild making theallegations against the father recorded in Exhibit 7 arealarming to say the least, as explained by Dr R in hisevidence. The maturity, sex, lifestyle and background of the child and with either of theparties Thechild appears to have the maturity commensurate with a child of herage. The parental attitude of each of the parties Eachof the parents loves the child. Themothers performance of parental responsibilities has been compromised dueto her serious mental illness resulting in thefull effects upon thechilds emotional development to which earlier reference has been made. It is likely to have been acontributing cause to the childs manyabsences or late arrivals at school both in 2006 and 2007. It is self-evidentthatit is contrary to the responsibilities of parenthood for the mother tomaintain using heroin whilst the child has been living withher and/or beenunder her care. That situation has been made worse so far as the child isconcerned by the mother letting Mr B notonly use heroin in her home from timeto time but utilising him as means of supply of heroin to her. Ifind that the father has displayed appropriate parental responsibilities limitedby his financial circumstances and the considerabledistance that lies betweenthe Hunter Valley area and Newcastle. Family violence and family violence orders Fortunatelythese matters are not relevant in these proceedings. The preference to make an order least likely to lead to the institution offurther proceedings in relation to the child Orderswhich provide for the child to live with the father, for the mother to havesupervised and then ultimately unsupervised periodsof time with the child arearguably least likely to lead to the institution of further proceedings inrelation to the child. Thereasons are that should the child continue to live with the mother her historicand present attitude is that the child shouldnot spend any unsupervised timewith the father due to her entrenched beliefs in relation to the father havingabused the child. No supervised periods of time with the father have beenencouraged or enthusiastically supported by the mother. Currently the situationgives rise to further proceedings in relation to the child. A Contraventionapplication had previously been made by the father. Ultimately that resulted inhim having supervised periods of time with the child pending determination ofthe proceedings betweenthe parties on a final basis. Onthe other hand I accept the evidence of the father and the tenor in which it wasgiven that he will support periods of time tobe spent by the child with themother in accordance with such parenting Orders that are made. I also acceptedhis evidence that hewill seek professional support to enhance his parentingabilities and to be effective in dealing with anxiety and stress which thechildmay have during any period that she lives with him. At the very least there maybe the proceedings between the father andthe mother in relation to the childhowever, parenting orders that provide for the child to live with the father,supervised andperhaps subsequent unsupervised periods of time that the mothermay spend with the child are least likely to lead to theinstitution of further proceedings. Any other relevant fact or circumstance Extensiveevidence has given by Ms D an experienced case worker in the employ of theIntervenor. I accept her evidence with regardto the range of professionalservices available for the assistance of the father and the mother as well asher enquiries in thatregard referred to both in her affidavit and oralevidence. Ialso accept the case for the Intervenor that the Department of CommunityServices by its appropriate staff can provide monitoringor supervisory servicesto assist both or either of the father and mother having regard to parentingorders that may be made. CONCLUSION Inthese proceedings it is appropriate to consider whether it is in the bestinterests of the child to live with the father or themother before determiningwhether or not the presumption of equal shared parental responsibility shouldapply. Thereasons why I have taken that approach is that should it be in the bestinterests of the child to live with the mother, despiteher deep conviction thatthe father has abused the child, the mothers fear for the safety of thechild in the event of herspending any time with the father on an unsupervisedbasis, or indeed her anxiety should the child be with the father on a supervisedbasis, it is obvious that the mother does not have the requisite attitude forconsultation, let alone joint decision making, withthe father in respect ofmajor long-term issues in relation to the child, and inferentially any issuesthat might arise in respectof the childs care, welfare and development.The communication between them in relation to any such matters has beenvirtuallynon-existent. That is a consequence of the mothersoppositional view to the child spending time with the father. Onthe other hand, should it be in the best interests for her to live with thefather, then in view of the almost certain non-acceptanceby the mother of thatsituation, the lack of any reliable evidence to suggest that the mother willcooperate with the father in termsof consultation, discussions and decisionmaking in relation to issues affecting the child, these factors represent afurther illustrationof the desirability to first make a determination as towhether it is in the best interests for the child to live with the fatheror themother. Potentialparenting orders that I may make in these proceedings in terms of whether it isin the best interests of the child to livewith the father or the mother,present very difficult decision making. The consideration that must be grappledwith in terms ofthe childs best interests represents a choice between amother with whom this young child of 6 years has lived all her life,but whounfortunately suffers with a serious mental illness of the type previouslydescribed, exacerbated by her long standing useof heroin on a periodic basis,her chronic and entrenched bizarre beliefs in relation to alleged abuseperpetrated by the father,and living in a home in which the mothersfriend/boarder Mr B, is also a long-term heroin user, and supplier of heroin tothe mother. Onthe other hand, the father has a history of post-traumatic stress disorder,ongoing features of which have required hospital andmedical attention. Fortunately he has been well for many years, although interrupted by irregularperiods of withdrawal from communicationimplicitly due to ongoing features ofstress. His position as he explained in his evidence was that his earlierpriority was notto seek that the child live with him, but rather that he havereasonable periods of time which he could spend with the child fortheir mutualbenefit, provided that the child was being well cared for by the mother. Hechanged his approach in these proceedingsdue to the evidence of themothers mental illness and the consequences of it given by Dr R and Dr V.The father has spentirregular and limited periods of time with the childwhether in the Hunter Valley or Newcastle and since 2005, those periods havebeen supervised by the Manager Child Dispute Services in the Newcastle Registryof the Court. Theproposal of the mother is that the child live with her and that the father havesupervised periods of time with the child on afortnightly basis. Theorders ultimately sought on behalf of the mother by her case guardian are setforth in Exhibit 16. The mother will submit toOrders requiring her to continueto consult her treating psychiatrist Dr V, or other psychiatrist to whom she isreferred, that shewill accept the supervision of the intervenor. Otherancillary orders are sought by her. Thefather seeks Orders that the child live with him and that the mother havesupervised periods of time with the child. Otherwise,the submissions made onhis behalf in substance supported the submissions made by the independentchildrens lawyer. Theindependent childrens lawyer submitted that parenting orders should bemade that provide for the child to live with thefather and that the mother havesupervised periods of time with the child. The independent childrenslawyer supported theOrders sought by the intervenor which provided forprovision of parenting orders by the Department of Community Services, ancillaryorders in relation to professional services that should be available to thefather and mother, followed ultimately by unsupervisedperiods of time oncertain terms and conditions. The relevant Orders sought are in Exhibit17. Ihave determined that it is in the best interests of the child that she live withthe father, that the mother is able to communicatewith the child and spendperiods of time with her upon certain terms and conditions to which I willsubsequently refer. My reasonsare as follows. Theexpert medical evidence that I have accepted from both the motherstreating psychiatrist Dr V as well as the Court appointedexpert Dr Rillustrates that they are in agreement in relation to the psychiatric diagnosisof the mother, her relevant history,psychiatric issues and symptomatology. Ido not propose to repeat the detail of those matters which I have fullydescribed earlierin the judgment. Theeffect so far as the mothers capacity to provide for the emotional andintellectual needs of the child is the subject ofmy previous findings. Whilstit appeared initially to Dr R that in the short-term the mother was able toprovide adequate care ofthe child however, a combination of the content ofaudio tape, Exhibit 7, the circumstances in which the recording was made of thechilds statements, the extraordinary number of absences or late arrivalat school by the child both in 2006 and this year,as well as the mothersreturn to heroin use, led Dr R to revise his earlier opinion in terms of themothers abilityto parent the child in all aspects for her benefit, atleast in the short-term. In addition there has been and continues to be thechronic, entrenched belief of the mother that the father has abused the childand implicitly may do so again. Despite continuingtreatment provided by Dr Rincluding appropriately prescribed medication, the belief of the mother has notshown any sign of abating. The child has been involved by the mother in thosebeliefs. Grave fears for the childs continued emotional development wereexpressed by Dr R and which implicitly follow from the evidence of Dr V, which Ihave accepted. Tomake matters worse so far as the child continuing to live with the mother isconcerned, the mothers recent return to theconsumption of heroin followsher historic pattern of taking heroin over many years when she is experiencingstress or pain. Herpropensity to take heroin from time to time is assisted byheroin use by her friend Mr B who resides in the mothers home. He hassupplied heroin to the mother upon her request from his own sources. Itis clear to me that it is not in the best interests of the child to continue tolive in the care of the mother in view of the mattersreferred to inparagraphs161, 162 and 163 herein. Theprospect of the child living with the father is not ideal. He is a 61 year oldman, has not had parenting experience with a youngchild on a daily basis formany years. His four children from his first marriage are adults and one ormore of them have their ownfamily. Thefather lives alone in the Hunter Valley area. He has had serious mental healthissues to which I have referred. Fortunately thefeatures of his post-traumaticstress disorder have lessened in terms of the impact upon his mental health. Ihave accepted Dr Rsevidence in that regard. The father has been wellfor many years other than the occasional episodes earlier described. He hasbeenactively engaged in volunteer work in his community. He has thelongstanding relationship support of Ms W. I have accepted her evidencethat shewill continue to provide substantial assistance to the father and the child ifrequired so far as any anxiety or grief thatthe child may display after beingseparated from the mother. The father has made appropriate enquiries inrelation to professionalservices that are available to assist him albeit thatsome travel is required. He will be supported by the intervenor on a periodicbasis. The father enjoys a good relationship with his adult children and theirfamilies, some of whom live in the same general area. Thefathers capacity to provide for the needs of the child in all respectsthe subject of positive findings made by me, arequalified only in terms ofassistance that he may require from professional services as well as Ms W. Thefather will support communication with the mother and periods of time to bespent by her with the child as may be ordered. Theexpert evidence of Dr R which I have accepted leads me to conclude that it is inthe best interests of the child that the mothernot spend periods of time withthe child immediately following the commencement of the child living with thefather. The mothersentrenched beliefs about the father as far as abuseof the child is concerned, her non-acceptance of the child living with thefather,her recent complicity in recording statements made by the child criticalof the father (Exhibit 7) as well as her deteriorating health,suggest that thechild needs time to establish herself in a stable healthy environment with thefather free from the potential undermining,comments or actions of themother. DrR had initially suggested that the relevant period be six weeks. He subsequentlyreviewed that period to four weeks. I accepthis recommendation as opposed tothe six week period suggested by the intervenors case worker or the threemonth period suggestedby the family consultant. The last two witnesses do nothave the appropriate formal qualifications for assessing the impact uponthechild of the periods recommended by them, nor did they engage in anyprofessional assessment for that purpose. Their roles werelimited to thedifficult tasks that fall within their respective disciplines andexperience. Ihave taken into account that it is likely that the child will suffer anxiety andgrief at not seeing the mother for a considerableperiod of time so far as achild of her age is concerned, especially as the mother has been the only parentwith whom she has livedon a daily basis. However, due to the weight that Ihave given to Dr Rs evidence of the need to create the situation of thechild living with the father free from the adverse influence of the mother sofar as the childs emotional health in concerned,I have reluctantlydecided to make an order that will reflect a period of four weeks prior to theperiod of time commencing in whichthe mother may spend time with the child. Inthe meantime telephone communication will occur on a regular weekly basis whichwillprovide some comfort to the child, other forms of communication may alsotake place. Ihave given much consideration to the mothers anxiety that she mayexperience in the event of the child not longer livingwith her but living withthe father. It is an important matter which is relevant to the best interestsof the child. The childwill not be assisted by the mothers anxiety andgrief. However, I take into account that that is partly due mainly to herundoubted love of the child but also the illness from which she suffers. Thosematters must be balanced against the other mattersto which I have referred forthe purpose of arriving at a conclusion that is in the best interests of thechild. Iaccept the submissions made on behalf of the father, the independentchildrens lawyer and the intervenor that a considerableperiod ofsupervised time to be spent by the mother with the child should take place atthe Rainbow Contact Centre. There may bea need to consider an alternative tothat Centre having regard to the potential long waiting lists. Appropriateorders will be made. Ihave determined that it is in the best interests of the child that thepresumption of equal shared parental responsibility is rebutted. My reasons arethat the child will live with the father. The mother has a deep seatedantagonism towards the father, communicationbetween them on a constructivebasis focussed upon the childs best interests, care and development hasbeen non-existent. Those matters do not show any sign of improvement. Accordingly it is in the best interests of the child that the father have thesole parental responsibility for her. Ihave also accepted the submissions that were made in relation to the drugscreening tests that the mother should take part in ona regular basis. Ihave given much consideration to the orders sought by the mother whereby shesubmits to orders requiring her to continue to attendupon Dr V or othernominated psychiatrist, and also accept the supervision of the intervenor. Whilst those steps will potentiallybe of much benefit to the mother, the expertevidence of Dr R and Dr V is that the nature and effect of the mothersseriousmental illness has not shown signs of improvement, other than on aperiodic basis. She has been compliant with medication and atother times usedheroin. In addition, her entrenched beliefs in relation to abuse of the childby the father do not show any signsof receding notwithstanding consultationswith her psychiatrist and treatment that has been provided. The adverse effectsfor thechilds emotional development have been emphasised in thisjudgment in accordance with Dr Rs evidence. There is noevidence beforeme that would lead me to conclude that continued consultations with apsychiatrist and supervision by the intervenorwill overcome thosedifficulties. Iam deeply concerned as to the reaction of the mother, quite apart from the childto the parenting orders that I will make whichwill provide, amongst otherthings, for the child to live with the father. Thepsychiatric evidence which I accept is that such orders are likely to becatastrophic for the mother, indeed even orders whichmay have been made for thechild to spend unsupervised time with the father and yet continue to liveotherwise with the mother. I infer that there is likely to be an extremereaction by the mother. The mother is a person who tragically has a seriousmentalillness described in this judgment, has deeply held beliefs that thefather has abused the child and has resumed heroin use. Herpossible actionsare not predictable once the Orders are published. For these reasons,notwithstanding that the child is likelyto display anxiety and grief in movingimmediately into the care of the father, I have decided that it is in the bestinterests ofthe child for Orders to be made which enable that to occur withoutthe interference by the mother, whether by words or actions. I have taken thatapproach because the paramount consideration is the best interests of the childas provided in Section 60CA. Iwill provide for liberty to apply for further orders by way of implementation,prevention or variation of all or any of the ordersmade by me upon two hourswritten notice being given. Iwill make publication orders so that a sealed copy of the orders may be shown tothe Principal of the school attended by the childas well as to Police Officers.Orders will also be made enabling parties to publish copies of the Orders andjudgment to all medicalpractitioners and psychologists, counsellors or otherpersons providing professional health services who may be consulted by anyofthe parties. I certify that the preceding one hundred and eighty(180) paragraphs are a true copy of the reasons for judgment of theHonourableJustice Rose Associate Dated: 30 November 2007 [1] B and B, FamilyLaw Reform Act 1995 (1997) FLC92-755 [2] B and B,ibid [3] Section60CC(1) [4] Section60CC(2) [5] Section60CC(3) AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2007/1391.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              