FAMILY LAW  CHILDREN With whom a child lives  Parental Responsibility  Wherethe Applicants are not thebiological parents of the child  Where theApplicants adopted the child pursuant to Tongan traditionsWherethe child is in hospital and likely to require a number of medicalprocedures  Where all parties consent to final orders beingmade Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) FIRSTAPPLICANT: Mr Kapa SECOND APPLICANT: Ms Kapa FIRST RESPONDENT: Mr Sinoti SECOND RESPONDENT: Ms Finau FILENUMBER: BRC 1214 of 2014 DATE DELIVERED: 17 February 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Brisbane PLACE HEARD: Brisbane JUDGMENT OF: Kent J HEARING DATE: 17 February 2014 REPRESENTATION SOLICITOR FOR THEAPPLICANTS: Harrington Family Lawyers FOR THE RESPONDENTS: In person by telephone ORDERS ITIS ORDERED BY CONSENT THAT (1) The child P SINOTI born ... April 2013 live with the Applicants. (2) The Applicants have shared parental responsibility for the care, welfare anddevelopment of the child in every respect includingas to major long termissues. (3) The Applicants be at liberty to change the childs name from P SINOTIto B KAPA. (4) The Applicants be permitted to take and send the child from Australia andtherefore be permitted to travel internationally. IT ISDIRECTED THAT (5) A transcript of todays proceedings be ordered, prepared and placed onthe file and be made available to the parties. IT IS NOTEDthat publication of this judgment by this Court under the pseudonym Kapaand Anor & Sinoti and Anor has been approved by the Chief Justicepursuant to s 121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act 1975(Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT BRISBANE FILE NUMBER:BRC 1214 of 2014 Mr Kapa First Applicant Ms Kapa Second Applicant And Mr Sinoti First Respondent Ms Finau Second Respondent EX TEMPORE REASONS FOR JUDGMENT Theseare parenting proceedings, pursuant to Part VII of the Family Law Act 1975(Cth) (the Act), concerning the child P Sinoti, (thechild) born in April 2013. TheApplicants in the proceedings, whilst not biological parents of the child, areplainly, on all the material, persons concernedwith her care, welfare ordevelopment within the meaning of section 69C of the Act. The Respondents inthese proceedings are the childs biological parents. The subject child,known as B and, indeed,all of the parties in these proceedings are of Tonganheritage. Theapplication was initially framed and brought in circumstances that because ofgrave illness of the child, decisions needed tobe made about her medical needs.Unfortunately, the childs circumstances are such that she is presently inC Hospital in Melbournewhere she is and has been in recent times treated forlife-threatening conditions. She has required a number of medical proceduresand significant surgery and is likely to require further significant medicaltreatment. Theproceedings come against a background that pursuant to Tongan traditions thechild was adopted by the Applicants. I am informed and acceptthat even prior to her birth it was agreed, as between the childsbiological parents and the Applicants,that the Applicants would be for allintents and purposes, within the understanding of Tongan tradition and culture,the parentsor adoptive parents of the child. That agreement arose even beforeher birth and having been born in April of last year, from Juneof last year thechild came into the care of the Applicants. Theurgency of the current application was that interim orders were sought on anurgent basis to provide the Applicants with sharedparental responsibility toallow them to make decisions about the childs medical needs. Inthe event, both of the biological parents have been served with the InitiatingApplication filed 11 February 2014 and the materialfiled in support of it. Thebiological parents appeared by telephone at the proceedings this morning. Bothof them had the opportunity to hear what Mr Page,the solicitor for theApplicants had to say about the relevant background to the matter, additional towhat appears in the materialfiled in support of the application, which has beenserved upon both of the biological parents. Thebiological parents have indicated they consent to the orders sought by theApplicants. I sought to obtain from the biologicalparents a clear indication ofwhether they were consenting only to the interim orders that were sought on theapplication listedbefore me for hearing today or whether they wished to consentto orders being made on a final basis. Iam satisfied on what they each imparted to the Court, on the hearing of theapplication, that both of the biological parents hadno objection to andeffectively consent to the making of the final orders that are sought by theApplicants. Section65G of the Act sets out the special conditions that apply when making aparenting order about with whom a child lives or the allocationof parentalresponsibility by consent, where the order is being made in favour of anon-parent. It is clear that both Applicantsare non-parents, in the sense ofbeing not the biological parents of the subject child, but I am satisfied on thesubmissions thathave been made to me this morning that at least one of theApplicants is a relative within the meaning of section 65G(1AB). IfI am wrong about that, I am satisfied in any event that there are circumstancesin this case that make it appropriate to make theproposed final orders, even ifit could be said a condition in paragraph (a) of that section is not satisfied. That is so becauseof the relevant contextual background I have briefly referredto in terms of the childs adoption and agreement by the biologicalparents to place her in the care of the present Applicants. Ireiterate that both of the biological parents confirmed to the Court that theyhad heard what Mr Page, the solicitor for the Applicantshad said on the hearingand for his part, the father expressed clearly that he regarded what had beensaid as all trueand he confirmed the cultural matters that MrPage identified in his submissions and that it had always been his wish andintentionthat the child be placed in the care of the Second Applicant, who hedescribes as the first cousin. Tosimilar effect, the mother expressed her agreement with all that had been saidby Mr Page. Thefact of the matter is that the child known as B has been in the care of theApplicants essentially since soon after her birthin accordance with apre-existing arrangement that had been made as between the Applicants and thebiological parents. Theobvious need for decisions to be made in the childs best interestsconcerning her medical needs would compel the conclusionthat the interim orderssought should be made, but in the event I am satisfied that the childsbest interests are also metby the making of final orders in thesecircumstances. Iam satisfied that the biological parents expressed their consent to the makingof orders on a final basis, as sought by the Applicants. Idirect that a transcript of the proceedings that occurred today be prepared andplaced on the file and that also such a transcriptbe made available to theparties. I incorporate the exchanges that occurred on the hearing today as partof my reasons. Itherefore make orders by consent in terms of the final orders sought as set outin the Initiating Application filed on 11 February2014. Icertify that the preceding eighteen (18) paragraphs are a true copy of thereasons for judgment of the Honourable Justice Kent deliveredon 17 February2014. Associate: Date: 21 February 2014 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/87.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      