FAMILY LAW  PROPERTY Interim  Where the wife seeks some 66 separate interlocutory orinterim orders and filesextensive material  Where the Wife seeks ordersfor the sale of the former matrimonial home  Where the wife seeks ordersfor interim spousal maintenance and adult child maintenance  Where thewife seeks orders for litigation funding by way oflump sum as well as ordersfor disclosure, injunctive relief and costs  Where there was no prospectof all of the applicationsbeing able to be heard and determined within the twohour hearing time for interim or procedural applications prescribed by rule 5.10of the Family Law Rules 2004  Where the Court resolved to hear thoseparts of the Application having the most priority and which could be heardwithintwo hours (in addition to reading time) with the balance of theApplication to be adjourned to be heard and determined in a subsequentdutylist. FAMILY LAW  PROPERTY  Litigation funding Exercise of power under s 79 and s 80  Whether an appropriatecase Form of order to be made. FAMILY LAW  SPOUSAL MAINTENANCE Interim  Nature of interim order for limited period of time Degree ofevidence required  Circumscribed hearing with no cross-examination. Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) IncomeTax Assessment Act 1936 (Cth) Family Law Rules 2004 (Cth) F and F (1982) FLC91-214 Marlowe-Dawson & Dawson [2012] FamCA 702 Redman andRedman [1987] FamCA 2; (1987) FLC 91-805 Stanford v Stanford [2012] HCA 52; (2012) 247 CLR108 Strahan & Strahan (Interim Property Orders) (2011) FLC93-466 APPLICANT: Ms Nowing RESPONDENT: Mr Nowing FILENUMBER: BRC 3243 of 2013 DATE DELIVERED: 21 October 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Brisbane PLACE HEARD: Brisbane JUDGMENT OF: Kent J HEARING DATE: 13 October 2014 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: Dr Brasch SOLICITOR FOR THE APPLICANT: Hopgood Ganim COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENT: Mr Kirk QC SOLICITOR FOR THE RESPONDENT: Barry Nilsson ORDERS IT IS ORDERED UNTIL FURTHER ORDER THAT: TheX Property TheWife and Husband will do all acts necessary and sign all necessary documents toplace the real property situated at Brisbane inthe State of Queensland(the X property) on the market for sale as agreed to and failingagreement as follows: (a) on orbefore 1 December 2014, the X property be listed for sale with such agent asagreed between the Wife and Husband and failingagreement, the Wife shallappoint the agent of her choice and the Husband shall appoint the agent of hischoice. Both agents areto be instructed to market the property jointly; (b) the saleprice of the X property is to be as agreed between the Wife and Husband andfailing agreement, the value attributed tothe property by P Valuers in theirreport dated 14 February 2014, being $6,250,000.00; (c) the Wifeand Husband shall co-operate in every way with the agent/s including withoutlimiting the generality of the foregoing: (i) making thekey available for the agent/s; (ii) allowinginspection of the X property at all reasonable times requested by theagent/s; (iii) doing orsaying nothing to hinder or prevent the sale being effected; (iv) ensuringthat the property, including the grounds, are in neat and clean condition at thetime of inspection by the agent/s andprospective purchasers; and (v) signing alldocuments requested by the agent/s in relation to the listing for sale of theproperties except a contract or agreementfor sale which has not been authorisedby the parties solicitors; (d) in theevent that the X property has not been sold within nine (9) months of thelisting date, then the Wife and Husband shallhave liberty to apply to the Courtfor further Orders in relation to the sale of the property. From24 October 2014, the Wife is at liberty to relocate to the X property and havesole use and occupancy of the property until seven(7) days prior to thesettlement of the sale of the X property provided: (a) upon thegiving of twenty-four (24) hours written notice, the Wife provide the Husbandaccess to the X property to allow him orhis agent to inspect the property; (b) the Wife isresponsible for the payment of all costs associated with the X property savefor: (i) repaymentsfor the Westpac mortgages (account numbers ...856 and ...106) and N Pty Ltdoverdraft (account number ...993); (ii) rates,water/sewerage and house and contents insuranceexpenses; (iii) gardening and pool maintenance expenses; (iv) agreed general repair and maintenance expenses; (v) cleaning costs of a maximum of three (3) hours per week;and (vi) security (back to base alarm system). TheHusband shall pay, or cause to be paid, the expenses listed in paragraph 2(b)above. Uponthe sale of the X property, the gross proceeds of sale are to be appropriated inthe following order and manner: (a) all costsand expenses of sale including legal costs and disbursements, agents feesand commission, including marketingand advertising costs; (b) payment ofthe Westpac mortgages (account numbers ...856 and ...106) and N Pty Ltdoverdraft (account number ...993) and any otherencumbrance affecting theproperty; (c) the balanceto be divided as follows: (i) 33% to theWife; (ii) 33% to theHusband; and (iii) thebalance then transferred to the trust account of Barry.Nilsson. Lawyers andinvested in the name of the Wife and Husbandin an interest bearing accountpending written agreement between the parties or an Order of theCourt. Ifeither party refuses or neglects to sign any document or do anything as may bereasonably required to give effect to these Orderswithin forty-eight (48) hoursof the service of a demand upon him or her to sign the document or to do thething, a Registrar ofthe Family Court of Australia be appointed, pursuant tos 106A of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth), to execute all documentsand do all acts and things necessary in the name of the defaulting party to givevalidity and operationto these Orders and the affidavit of the solicitor forthe non-defaulting party shall be sufficient evidence of such non-compliance.The defaulting party shall be responsible for the payment of the non-defaultingpartys costs associated with the appointmentof the Registrar on anindemnity basis. Litigation Funding Eachparty do all acts and things reasonably required, including signing anynecessary documents, so as to cause monthly redraws tobe made (commencingOctober 2014 and each month thereafter) from the Westpac bank overdraft redrawfacility secured by the X property,so that each party receives as and by way ofpartial property settlement $20,000.00 each month up to a total of $300,000.00for eachparty provided that such redraws shall cease upon settlement of thesale of the X property or further order. Interim SpousalMaintenance Pendingthe Wifes receipt of her share of the net proceeds of sale of the Xproperty and commencing in the week beginning 20October 2014 and weeklythereafter the Husband shall cause to be paid to the Wife as and by way ofinterim spousal maintenance: (a) the sum of$2,178.00 (net of tax); (b) theWifes gap medical and dental expenses provided thatin any week such payments shall be reduced by the amount of net income fromemployment derived by the Wife, as to whichthe Wife is to keep the Husbandadvised. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED BY CONSENT UNTIL FURTHER ORDERTHAT: TheHusband reduce his loan drawings from N Pty Ltd to $1,500.00 perweek. Inthe event that M Pty Ltd obtains an unconditional contract for the sale of theproperty at B Street, the Husband shall requestthe approval of the board ofthat company to release to the Wife the information and documents the Wife hasrequested of the Husbandwith respect to such sale. Onthe 10th day of each month the Husband shall provide to the Wifecopies of the previous months bank statements for all accounts inrespectof which the Husband has authority to provide. Withinten (10) days of completion, the Husband will provide to the Wife copies of thequarterly general ledgers and quarterly managementaccounts for N PtyLtd. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED THAT: TheWife have liberty to re-list her Application in a Case filed on 21 July 2014, tothe extent that orders are sought for disclosure,injunctions, adult childmaintenance or other orders sought not dealt with by these Orders, to a futureduty list for interim applications. Therequirement that the parties attend a Conciliation Conference with a Registrarof this Honourable Court is dispensed with. TheConciliation Conference listed before the Registrar at 9.00 am on29 October 2014 be vacated, and the substantive proceedingsproceed as ifsuch a Conciliation Conference had been held. Eachpartys costs of the Wifes Application in a Case filed 21 July 2014be reserved. IT IS NOTED that publication of thisjudgment by this Court under the pseudonym Nowing & Nowing has beenapproved by the Chief Justice pursuant to s 121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act1975 (Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT BRISBANE FILE NUMBER:BRC 3243 of 2013 Ms Nowing Applicant And Mr Nowing Respondent REASONS FOR JUDGMENT MsNowing (the wife) and Mr Nowing (the husband) areengaged in substantive property settlement proceedingspursuant to s 79 of theFamily Law Act 1975 (Cth) (the Act) following the breakdownof their marriage. Byan Application in a Case filed on 21 July 2014 the wife seeks an array ofinterim orders including, inter alia, orders for saleof the former matrimonialhome and consequential orders as to the disposition of the proceeds of sale; anorder for the lump sumpayment of litigation funding for her legal fees in thesubstantive proceedings; interim spousal maintenance; adult child maintenance;orders for disclosure; injunctive orders and costs. Byher Application the wife seeks some 66 separate interlocutory or interim ordersand in support of her Application has filed inexcess of 450 pages ofmaterial. Rule5.10 of the Family Law Rules 2004 (Cth) prescribes the hearing time for aninterim or procedural application. Subparagraph (1) of that Ruleprovides: The hearing of an interim or procedural application must be no longer than twohours. Ialso note in passing that in apparent recognition of subparagraph (2) of r 5.10 (which provides that exceptional circumstancesmust be shown to allowfor cross-examination to occur at any interim hearing), neither party soughtcross-examination and thus disputedissues of fact could not be resolved. Irecord that notwithstanding spending some hours reading the wifesmaterial, such reading could not be completed prior toembarking upon thehearing of the Application as a duty matter on Monday 13 October 2014. I recordthat there was never any realisticprospect of all of the applications beingable to be heard and determined within the two hour hearing time prescribed bythe Rulereferred to. Inthe circumstances I resolved to hear those parts of the Application apparentlyhaving the most priority and which could be heardwithin two hours (in additionto reading time) with the balance of the Application to be adjourned to be heardand determined ina subsequent duty list, if that proves necessary. Byway of brief background, the husband is currently 55 years of age and isemployed as a company director within what may convenientlybe referred to asthe N Group which comprises some 27 entities in the form ofcompanies or trusts. Thewife is currently 53 years of age and is currently a homemaker. Theparties met in 1981 whilst studying at University; commenced cohabitation in1982; married in 1985 and finally separated in November2010. Theparties divorce was pronounced on 18 January 2014. Eachparty is now in a new relationship with a de facto partner. Theparties relationship of some 28 years produced four now adult childrennamely: DNowing born in 1988, currently aged 25 years; WNowing born in 1991, now aged 23 years; GNowing born in 1992, currently aged 21 years; and ONowing born in 1994; now aged 19 years. Followingthe parties separation in November 2010 and until March 2014 the informalfinancial arrangements between the partiesincluded that each party and to someextent the children were supported via the N Group. However on or about10 March 2014 the husbandcaused the cash amount paid directly to, or beingreceived by, the wife to be reduced to a sum of $2,119.00 per week for livingexpenses(plus health insurance and all gap medical expenses) and this level ofsupport of the wife has continued to date. The N Group Inabout 1992 the husband entered into a partnership with four brothersconveniently referred to as the Z brothers. The husband deposesthat he holds a 20 per cent interest and the Z brothers hold an 80 per centinterest in the company M Pty Ltd(the M Group). The M Groupalong with its subsidiary company M Properties Pty Ltd own a number ofcommercial properties.[1] Basedupon the chronology contained in the husbands affidavit filed24 September 2014, in April 2014 the valuers, C Valuers undertook avaluation of the eight commercial properties in which the parties have aninterest via the interests referred to andplaced a combined value on thosecommercial properties of approximately $108 million. I note in passing that thewife disputes thisvaluation on the basis that the previous valuers instructedby a bank were not provided with the same information as C Valuers. Thehusband summarises his employment as a company director and the nature of therelevant business interests at [7.5] to [7.7] ofhis affidavit filed24 September 2014. Relevantly he deposes as follows: 7.5 I amthe sole director of [[N] Pty Ltd]. My primary business is [propertydevelopment]. We also have a 20 per cent interestin the entity, [M] Pty Ltd([M] Group). The primary purpose of the [M] Group is propertyinvestment but it has alsoengaged in joint venture developments with [N PtyLtd]. 7.6 The company, [N Pty Ltd] derives two main types of income, from propertymanagement services and developments. Property managementincome provides thecompany with contracted and consistent ongoing monthly income which contributesto the overheads of the business. The riskier but more profitable propertydevelopment activities are dependent on the economy and the property industry,resultingin a cyclical and spasmodic injection of income on completion ofdevelopments on an ad hoc basis. The injection of larger amountsof incomecontributes to the balance of business overheads, repays the overdrafts andother loans which have grown during the courseof the cycle and providesprofits. 7.7 Due to the cyclical nature of the [N Pty Ltd] and Business outlinedabove, the increasing loan facilities fund both the businessoverheads, costs ofdevelopments being undertaken, holding costs for joint properties, and finallythe personal living expenses ofour family. Thehusband also deposes that historically the parties have spent in excess of thecash income derived from the business interestson items including overseastravel, renovations to the former matrimonial home, being the property atBrisbane known and referredto as the X property, and livingexpenses. This is said to have resulted in the parties having incurredsubstantialloans to N Pty Ltd in both their personal capacities and via acorporate entity A Nominees Pty Ltd as trustee for the N Family Trust. As at 8September 2014 the balance of these loan accounts was $8,246,810.00. Theparties business interests also extend into the hospitality industry. In1995 the parties acquired an equal partnershipinterest in a hospitalitybusiness known as F. Further, just prior to separation in 2010, the partiesestablished K which the wifemanaged and developed as a prestige hospitalitybusiness until March 2013 when she ceased all involvement in that business. Atthattime the husband took over the management of K and he deposes to havingre-branded the business in March-May 2013. The husband continuesto manage the business to date. Acentral contention in the husbands evidence is that in the periodfollowing separation there has been a significant changein the partiesfinancial circumstances owing to a number of factors including the globalfinancial crisis which has resultedin the husband being unable to continuemeeting the wifes, unfettered expenses as he describesthem. [2] Thehusband contends that following separation the financial circumstances thatexisted prior to separation remained unchanged, thatis, he was entirelyresponsible for the financial support of the wife and children until 10 March2014 being three years,three months and twenty-one days afterseparation. Inote in passing that such a contention would seem to discount the wifeshistorical involvement in the business includingher management of andinvolvement in the hospitality businesses referred to. It also seemed to be theuncontested evidence of thewife that the termination of the partiesinvolvement in W was due to a resumption of the land and building by the localauthorityand litigation has ensued with respect to that resumption in whichcompensation is claimed. The uncontested evidence of the wifeis that she hastaken a primary role, as between the parties, in pursuing the claim forcompensation. Asearlier noted, on 10 March 2014 the husband began causing the wife to be paid$2,119.00 per week for her living expenses (plusall gap medical and dentalexpenses) which the wife has continued to receive. The husband has deposed inhis material to his agreementto reduce his loan drawings from N Pty Ltd to$1,500.00 per week. This will result in the husband receiving a weekly incomeof $4,038.00comprising of his net weekly wage of $2,538.00 and loan drawingsfrom N Pty Ltd of $1,500.00 perweek.[3] Thehusband deposes that following separation in November 2010 and up until August2014 he has, paid or caused to be paid,the sum of $1,039,349.35to the wife or for her benefit. The husband deposes, that equates to anaverage of over $23,000.00permonth.[4] Atparagraph 6.2 of his affidavit filed 24 September 2014 the husband includes atable which breaks down the total paid of $1,039,349.35into groups of expenses.Further, at [7.4] of that same affidavit, the husband includes a table showing abreakdown of how he sayspayments to the wife have been funded. Further, thehusband deposes that the wife has also received the benefit of funds from othersources including sale proceeds of $43,493.00 from the liquidation of aninvestment and the sale of a horse and float for a combinedtotal of $36,000.00.In summary, it is the husbands position that since separation the wifehas received or had the benefitof a total of $1,118,842.35. Current financial circumstances of the adult children Dis financially independent and currently resides in the United Kingdom. Wis studying at University and lives between rental accommodation with friends onthe Gold Coast and in Brisbane. There is a factualdispute between the partiesas to where W stays when he comes to Brisbane. The wife claims he lives withher for approximately fournights per week. The husband disagrees and maintainsthat when W has been staying in Brisbane he has been residing in the Xproperty. Glives full-time with the wife in Brisbane and has deferred her universitystudies by reason of ill health. The extent of Gsill health appears tobe a matter in dispute. Olives in the X property with her boyfriend and is currently studying atuniversity. O also works part-time for some three daysper week in the businessof N Pty Ltd. Sale of the X property and disposition of the proceeds Itwas ultimately not in issue as between the parties that the former matrimonialhome being the real property situated at Brisbane,known and referred to asthe X property ought be placed on the market for sale. Nor was itin issue that the wifeshould be entitled to occupy the property pending itssale given that both parties recognise that there may be a significant saleperiod involved given the nature and value of the subject property. Thewifes current lease of her current rental premises expires at the end ofthis month. She therefore sought the opportunityto commence occupation of theX property in advance of the expiration of her lease. Thehusbands starting position was that the date upon which the wifesoccupation of the property ought commence oughtbe 29 October 2014. However, inthe end it seemed that 24 October 2014 was a date acceptable to both parties assuch a date wouldallow the husband sufficient opportunity to relocate hispersonal effects from the X property and give the wife sufficient time inadvance of the expiration of the lease of her current rental premises tofacilitate her taking up occupation in the X property. Whilstthe wifes application sought an order for the X property to beimmediately listed for sale, in the endthere did not seem to beopposition by the wife to the husbands proposal that the listing occur,on or before 1 December2014. In any event in circumstances wherethe wife is to relocate to that property from 24 October 2014 and incircumstanceswhere she will have the use and occupation of that property fromthen until sale, it would not seem to disadvantage either partyfor the listingto be on or before 1 December 2014 given the potential need for the property tobe readied for sale. Theparties were at odds in terms of the mechanism for sale. The wife sought thatthe sale price be as agreed by the parties andfailing agreement as to bedetermined, by the nominee of the Chief Executive Officer for the timebeing of the Real EstateInstitute of Queensland. In circumstances whereit is clear the parties are unable to agree on a listing price the husbandsought that if the parties could not agree on a price the listing price be$6,250,000.00 being the valuation for the property attributedto it by thesingle expert valuers in their valuation report dated 14 February 2014. Itis obviously in the interests of both parties for the sale of the X property tobe maximised. I consider it reasonable to inferthat the husband, given thenature of his business and experience in the property industry, would not urgethe setting of the pricein accordance with the expert valuation if heconsidered that price to reflect some kind of undervalue of the property, evenat thecurrent time. Moreover, the mechanism proposed by the wife would resultin a real estate agent nominated by the Real Estate Instituteof Queenslandsetting a price and that would not necessarily be the product of a formalvaluation expertise guided by, inter alia,reference to comparable sales. In myjudgment and in all the circumstances it is reasonable to adopt thehusbands approachof setting the price in accordance with the singleexpert valuation that has been obtained. Inthe course of hearing there appeared to be some debate as to which costsassociated with the X property would be met by one orother of the partiespending its sale. In the result the husbands proposed orders wereexpanded to include house and contentsinsurance expenses and the husband alsoagreed to meet costs associated with security for a back to base alarm systemwith respectto the X property. I will incorporate those adjustments to theorders proposed by the husband handed up during the course of thehearing. Afurther issue at the outset of the hearing was the time period for the Xproperty to be listed for private sale before proceedingto an auction, if notsold. In the result, during argument both parties seemed to be accepting of theproposition that if the Xproperty has not been sold within nine months of thelisting date then if either party has liberty to apply to the Court for furtherorders in relation to the sale including it proceeding to sale by auction, thatwould address any relevant concerns, and that isthe order I propose tomake. Theremaining dispute on this topic concerned the disbursement of proceeds of saleof the X property. Whilst both parties agreedthat the proceeds should be firstused to discharge the Westpac mortgages and overdrafts secured upon the propertyand the usualliabilities associated with sale, the wife sought an order thatthe balance sale proceeds be retained in the trust account of hersolicitors tobe invested in her name in an interest bearing account, pending writtenagreement of the parties or order ofthe Family Court. Forhis part, the husband sought an order that after paying costs of sale andmortgage/overdraft debt, 33 per cent of the net proceedsbe paid to each party,with the balance then remaining to be invested in the joint names of the partiesin an interest bearing account. Byreference to a balance sheet appearing as one of the annexures to her materialthe wife contends that the overall pool of propertyavailable for distribution,including superannuation interests, has a value in the order of$16 million. In the substantive propertyproceedings, the wife contendsthat final orders should be made which see the husband receiving 40 per cent ofthe partiesjoint and respective property interests overall. In broadterms, on the evidence as it stands, allowing for costs of sale of theXproperty and repayment of relevant mortgage and overdraft facilities currentlyin the amount of about $1.5 million, there wouldremain something in the orderof about $4.5 million available by way of net proceeds of sale. No goodreason was demonstrated onbehalf of the wife as to why the whole of such sumshould remain invested pending determination of the substantive proceedings ascompared with the husbands proposition that 33 per cent of the net sumshould be invested while each party receives as andby way of partial propertyorder 33 per cent. Evenwith the increase to the debt by reason of redraws upon the facility up to$300,000.00 each as discussed later in these Reasonsthere would remainsubstantial proceeds available to the parties. MoreoverI accept the submission by Mr Kirk of Queens Counsel for the husband thatthere is an obvious inter-relationship,given the discussion which follows,between receipt of such a partial property settlement (if granted) and ongoingspousal maintenancebeing paid to the wife. Ihave set out below under the topic of Litigation Funding therelevant principles and considerations in this case asto the making of interimproperty orders and I adopt that discussion here without replicating it. Iaccept that it is reasonable and appropriate to make partial property settlementorders with respect to the distribution of theproceeds of sale of the Xproperty as contended for on behalf of the husband, subject to the discussionbelow concerning litigationfunding. Itherefore with respect to this issue make orders in accordance with the draftorders handed up on behalf of the husband during thecourse of the hearing butwith the amendments to those orders as either discussed in the hearing oroutlined in the foregoing discussion. Litigation funding Thewife seeks litigation funding in the form of a $100,000.00 lump sum payment nowto fund her legal costs to what is described asthemediation/conciliation conference stage of these proceedings andthen a further $200,000.00 lump sum payment tofund her litigation expenses totrial if the matter does not resolve at the mediation/conciliationconference stage. Thewife relies on the evidence provided by her solicitor Ms Wigan setting outestimates of the legal costs (including outlays) itis anticipated that the wifewill need to meet through the stages referred to. There did not seem to be anyconcerted challengeby the husband as to the estimates of costs provided byMs Wigan. Whilst counsel for the husband submitted at the hearing that thehusbands solicitors had estimated that the husband would only expendapproximately $30,000.00 up to mediation stage, and hewas thus unsure why thewife needed $100,000.00, counsel ultimately observed that was a matterfor her. Duringthe course of the hearing reference was made to the balance sheet earlierreferred to for the purpose of outlining how farapart the parties were as tothe value of the net pool of assets available for division. In particular, thehusband there refersto the parties loan accounts with private companiesand the operation of Division 7A of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936(Cth) for such amounts to attract tax payable upon deemed dividends. Duringthe course of the hearing it became clear that neither party nor theirrespective legal representatives reposed much confidencein the substantiveproperty issues being resolved at a Conciliation Conference. Indeed, bothultimately sought that the ConciliationConference be dispensed with on thebasis that if and when the parties reached the stage that a settlementconference or mediationis likely to be worthwhile they can arrange that forthemselves. I therefore include as one of the orders an order dispensing withthe need for a conciliation conference. Takenfrom her Application in a Case the wife seeks litigation funding by wayof partial property settlement and thusrelies upon s 79 and s 80(1)(h)of the Act as the source of power for the making of such an order. Itwas submitted on behalf of the husband that both parties have a need for fundsfor their legal expenses of these proceedings withthe only present source ofthose funds being via borrowing on the security/equity of the X property. Asalready noted, the partieshave a $3,000,000.00 overdraft facility with Westpac,guaranteed by the wife and secured against the X property. Currently thebusinessoverdraft has a debit balance in the order of about $1,500,000.00. Itwas also submitted on behalf of the husband that he would agree to a formof dollar for dollar order, or totake the parties past themediation step, would agree to each receiving $100,000.00 from the overdraftfacility. Ihave earlier outlined my acceptance of the husbands contention that fromthe sale of the X property each party ought receive33 per cent of the netproceeds by way of interim property with the balance to be invested. Ihave earlier outlined, by reference to the husbands sworn affidavit, thatthe N Group has historically funded the needs ofthe family via loans or thesubject overdraft facility through the cycle the husband deposes to. Plainly incircumstances wherethe X property is said to have a value in the order of$6,250,000.00 and the overdraft facility stands currently at about $1,500,000.00there is substantial equity in the property. Iwould also observe at this point that on one level there is something of aninternal inconsistency in the husbands case. On the one hand it wassubmitted on behalf of the husband, by reference to the balance sheet earlierreferred to, that the existingnet asset pool, after making allowance for theDivision 7A tax issues might be only $538,455.00 net. That contention, takenalsowith the husbands contention in the substantive proceedings that theproperty interests of the parties pursuant to s 79 oughtultimately be divided65 per cent/35 per cent in his favour, is not readily reconciled with thehusbands contention that eachparty should receive 33 per cent of the netproceeds of sale of the X property referred to as and by way of partial propertysettlement. Interms of the adjectival or procedural step or the firststep referred to by the plurality in Strahan & Strahan (InterimProperty Orders) (2011) FLC 93-466 (StrahansCase), I am satisfied that this is a proper case in all thecircumstances for an interim property settlement order to be made. Thosecircumstances include the following: Self-evidentlythere is significant complexity about the financial affairs of the parties. There are numerous entities involved inthe N Group and a complexity about thefinancial transactions and arrangements as between those entities. Thedifference betweenthe parties of potential Division 7A issues is but oneexample evidencing the complexity of the affairs involved; It isappropriate in order to do justice to the parties that they each have access tocapable legal representation and accountingexpertise in pursuing theircompeting claims in the substantive proceedings, if injustice is to beavoided; Theparties have now been separated for almost four years and each apparentlyagitates issues, each in themselves of some complexity,concerning expendituresand use of funds in the post-separation period; Thehusband has maintained, and continues to maintain, financial control over whatmay be described as the parties corporateor business interests andentities. There would be inherent unfairness to the wife if the husband wereable to exert that controlto fund his own expenses of this litigation whilstthe wife has no commensurate ability. Turningthen to the second step referred to in Strahans Caseas to whether it is just and equitable and appropriate to make an order, thereis no issue in this case in circumstances where bothparties seek orders forproperty adjustment after the end of a marriage of some 28 years, which producedfour children, that thejust and equitable requirement in s 79(2) is fulfilled. It is readily apparent by reference to what was said by the plurality inStanford v Stanford [2012] HCA 52; (2012) 247 CLR 108 at [42] that the end of themarriage here also brought an end to common use of property and a range ofassumptions underlying the partiesmarriage relationship whilst itsubsisted. Inthe course of argument the Court raised with the parties the appropriateness oforders being made that rather than lump sums inthe amount sought by the wifebeing drawn that a monthly sum in the order of $20,000.00, pending receipt byeach party of their 33per cent share of net settlement proceeds of the Xproperty, might be redrawn on the mortgage facility over the X property so thateach party might fund their litigation expenses pending receipt of thosesettlement proceeds. No good reason was advanced to mysatisfaction as to whylump sums rather than periodical payments were necessary. Giventhe issues involved and the disputed issues of fact on this application it isnot possible for the Court to resolve in any concludedway the likelyidentification and value of the net property interests of the parties. Asalready noted, by reference to the subjectbalance sheet, the wife contends thatthe combined property and superannuation interests of the parties amounts toabout $16,000,000.00whilst the husband contends that after making allowance forDivision 7A tax the existing net asset pool is calculated at only $538,455.00.I have already noted some inconsistency between that contention and the ordersthe husband proposes with respect to distributionof the proceeds of sale of theX property. Plainlyit would be relevant to the clawback issue or reversibility of theeffect of an interim property order if indeedit was ultimately demonstratedthat the net pool was to be taken at a calculation in the order of $500,000. However, I infer fromthe husbands approach with respect to the orderssought with respect to the distribution of proceeds of the X property thatthisaspect can be addressed. The wife will receive capital from the sale proceedsof the X property (as will the husband) and itis to be reasonably assumed thateach party will invest that capital in other assets. Certainly it is clear thatfrom the wifesperspective, by reference to expert accounting evidence,there is an issue of significance raised by her as to the quantum of anyDivision 7A loans issue in these proceedings in calculating the net divisiblepool. Iam therefore satisfied that it is more likely than not that anyreversibility or clawback issue canbe addressed inthe final determination of the s 79 proceedings if the litigation fundingproposed for each party is allowed for.That is, whilst I cannot reach any firmconclusions as to the ultimate likely net asset value I am satisfied that it ismore likelythan not, on the evidence currently available, that theparties joint and respective net property interests will be of sufficientmagnitude to address this issue in the final determination of s 79 orders, evenif interim property orders are now made for litigationfunding. Interms of contribution as identified in s 79(4)(a), (b) and (c) there cannot beany doubt that over a 28 year relationship producingfour now adult children;and having regard to the chronology of relevant events submitted by each party;that each has made substantialfinancial and non-financial contributions to theproperty of the parties or either of them and to the welfare of the familyconstitutedby the parties and their children. Noneof the other matters in s 79(4) including the factors in s 75(2) would stand inthe way of the appropriateness of an order nowbeing made for partial propertysettlement to fund each partys litigation expenses. Incircumstances where the litigation funding is to be provided from, in effect,the parties equity in the X property pendingits sale from the redrawfacility; with that debt to be repaid from the proceeds of sale; an interimproperty order in the proposedform of monthly draws simply gives the partiesaccess to property to fund litigation from the equity in the X property. Giventhe orders to be made with respect to the disbursal of the net proceeds of saleof the X property I am satisfied that it isappropriate to order by way ofinterim property orders that each party be able to re-draw the amount of $20,000per month from thatfacility, pending each party receiving their share of netsale proceeds, up to a limit of $300,000.00 each. Obviously if the X propertysells in a matter of a few months or less that limit will not be approached letalone reached, but allowing for the prospect that,as the parties contemplate,the X property may be difficult to sell and take many months (and may indeedneed to proceed to an auctionafter some nine months hence) it is reasonable tofacilitate each parties litigation funding by this means, with the limitreferredto being set. Iam thus satisfied that this a proper case for interim property orders to be madefor litigation funding and I am satisfied thatin all the circumstances theproposed orders for the funding of each partys litigation expenses isappropriate. Interim spousal maintenance Thewifes Application in a Case sought an order for spousal maintenance of$3,097.00 (net of tax) per week plus gapmedical and dentalexpenses. Thehusband deposed to his agreement to pay $1,000.00 (net per week) plus hergap medical and health insurancepremiums.[5] In her scheduleof expenses at [78] of her affidavit filed 21 July 2014 the wife deposes thatthe cost of the relevant Bupa healthinsurance premium is $119.00 per week. Notwithstandingthat she had read the husbands affidavit filed 24 September 2014 in whichhe deposed to his agreement to permitthe wife sole use and occupation of the Xproperty pending sale the wife, by her affidavit filed 3 October 2014,maintained the positionof seeking a weekly cash sum of $3,097.00 (net of tax)by way of maintenance, plus payment of gap medical and dental expenses. Thewife there contended that the weekly rent saving of $1,150.00 was offsetby: removalcosts to relocate to the X property; foodexpenses for [O] and her boyfriend ... of at least $400.00 per week forboth of them; electricityexpenses for the X property in the order of $4,000.00 per billing period(quarterly); and theneed to again relocate once the X property is sold and to pay a bond and futureweekly rent. Asto the last of these matters, plainly if each party receives capital from thesale of the X property as and by way of partial propertysettlement such anexpense may be unnecessary or at least not fall in the category of a need. Duringthe course of argument it was acknowledged by counsel for the wife that it wouldnot be legitimate as and by way of spousalmaintenance to claim the costs forthe food expense of an adult daughter and her boyfriend. Inthe course of argument the wifes claim for a cash sum was modified fromthe amount of $3,097.00 per week to $2,178.00 perweek. That was incircumstances where, aside from the question of food expenses for the adultdaughter and her boyfriend, no evidencewas proffered in the wifes caseas to the amount of any removal expenses. Inrespect of the wifes revised claim of $2,178.00 net per week there was nochallenge on behalf of the husband as to thisamount reflecting the wifesreasonable needs. Nor was any case mounted by the husband to the effect thatcapacity to meetsuch a claim was an issue. That is unsurprising given thehistorical level of support derived by both parties from the N Group includingthe level of that support even to date in respect of the wife; and the level ofsupport the husband draws for himself from that source. Thehusbands challenge to the claim was in two respects. One aspect was thecontention that the wife has an earning capacitywhich she chooses not toexercise to meet her own reasonable needs. Second it was contended that becausethe wife has been in ade facto relationship since separation, a period ofalmost four years, there ought be no order for interim spousal maintenance; orat least any order beyond the amount conceded by the husband. Giventhat each party will receive substantial capital by way of partial propertysettlement via the 33 per cent share of net proceedsof sale of the X property(even allowing for the redraw facility debt to increase in the meantime to fundlitigation expenses), anyinterim order for spousal maintenance should operateonly until such receipt. Wherean interim order is in contemplation, that is, an order for a limited time it iswell settled that the evidence in support ofsuch an order need not be soextensive, nor the findings of the Court so precise, as would be required withrespect to a final maintenancehearing. Those authorities recognise that theCourt should in matters such as this have a greater degree of flexibility thanincases where maintenance may last for an indefinite period and which can onlybe varied under s 83 of the Act. Thusthe Full Court observed in Redman and Redman [1987] FamCA 2; (1987) FLC 91-805 at76,081: ... this was an interim order. Whilst we agree with the view expressed inAshton that in principle such an order is one under sec. 74, to which theprinciples of sec. 72 ... may be applicable ... the very factthat the order islimited in time imports certain different considerations. One of these is thatsuch an order is intended to bereconsidered, quite apart from a variation undersec.83. ... Another consequence is that on an application for interimmaintenance,the court conducts not as final or exhaustive a hearing aswould be the case if one were hearing the matter finally:Williamsonand Williamson (1978) FLC 90-505 at p. 77,650 per Fogarty J. The evidenceneed not be so extensive and the findings not so precise. Having regard tothose factors,and the general injunction of sec. 97(3), the court should insuch matters have a greater degree of flexibility than it possesses inapplications for maintenance which areintended to last for an indefinite periodand can only be varied under sec. 83. Thatdecision was cited with approval by the Full Court per Nygh J in Wilson &Wilson (1989) FLC 92-033 at 77,454. Itbears repeating that these proceedings were necessarily truncated as an interimhearing without cross-examination of any relevantwitness. In[41] to [47] of Marlowe-Dawson & Dawson [2012] FamCA 702 delivered on2 August 2012 I summarised the relevant statutory provisions and applicable lawas follows: 41. Section 72(1) of the Act provides that: A party to a marriageis liable to maintain the other party, to the extent that the first-mentionedparty is reasonably able to doso if, and only if, that other party is unable tosupport herself or himself adequately... 42. Section 72(1) sets out the three circumstances which may cause the needfor maintenance to arise and, relevantly here, providesin sub-paragraphs (a)and (b): (a) by reason of having the care and control of a child of the marriage whohas not yet attained the age of 18 years; (b) by reason of age or physical or mental incapacity for appropriate gainfulemployment; ... having regard to any relevant matter referred to in subsection 75(2). InBevan & Bevan (1995) FLC 92-600, the Full Court of this Court set outthe process for assessing a spousal maintenance claim as: Takentogether then, we would state the law as being that an award of spousalmaintenance requires: 1. A threshold finding under s 72 [now s 72(1)]; 2. Consideration of s 74 and s 75(2); 3. No fettering principle that pre-separation standard of living mustautomatically be awarded where the respondents meanspermit; 4. Discretion exercised in accordance with the provisions of s 74, withreasonableness in the circumstances as the guidingprinciple. Thefirst question is whether the Wife is unable to support herself adequately. InNutting & Nutting (1978) FLC 90-410, Lindenmayer J interpretedadequately within the meaning of s 72 of the Act asimporting: A standard of living which is reasonable in thecircumstances, including the circumstance that the parties are no longer husbandandwife and that the assets and resources which were formerly available to themboth in common have now been divided between them. InSaxena & Saxena [2006] FamCA 588; (2006) FLC 93-268, Coleman J set out the four stepsthat the Court should follow as: 1. To what extent was the Wifeunable to support herself? 2. What were the Wifes reasonable needs? 3. What capacity did the Husband have to meet an order, if one were made? 4. If steps 1 to 3 favoured the Wife, what order would be reasonable havingregard to s 75(2) of the Act? TheFull Court of this Court, in M & M [2006] FamCA 868; (2006) 36 Fam LR 97, addressed thethreshold proposition in the following terms: [31] ...The questionwhether an applicant can support his or herself adequately is notto be determined by referenceto any fixed or absolute standard but by havingregard to the matters referred to in s 75(2): Mitchell (above at Fam LR59; FLR 306; FLC 81,995). [32] The question is not to be determined upon a subsistencelevel but upon consideration of whether the applicant cansupport himselfor herself adequately importing a standard of living reasonable inthe circumstances: Mitchell (above); Evans and Evans (1978) FLC90-435; Brady and Brady (1978) FLC 90-513 at 77,701; Gamble andGamble (1978) FLC 90-452; Wilson and Wilson (1989) 13 Fam LR 205; FLC92-033; and Bevan and Bevan (1993) 19 Fam LR 35; (1995) FLC 92-600. [33] It is not necessary for an applicant for maintenance to use up all ofhis or her assets and capital in order to satisfy the requirementthat he or sheis unable to support him or herself adequately: Mitchell,above. Thehusband points to the feature that the wife holds the degree of Bachelor ofBusiness in Public Administration and enjoys a goodreputation in thehospitality industry and is experienced in that industry for the propositionthat the wife has the capacity forgainful employment to meet her own needs. Injuxtaposition, the husband also deposes to the wife being unable to manage the Fbusinesswithout management staff; and an asserted inability of the wife toproperly manage the K business.[6] Thewifes evidence that she was the primary carer of the four children of themarriage and managed the home during the relationshipmay be accepted. It mayalso be accepted that the wife assisted the husband in the property businessforming part of the N Groupand managed and operated the F business untilSeptember 2012 and the K business until March 2013. Thewife sets out in her affidavit filed on 21 July 2014 certain difficulties witheach of the children leading to her not undertakingpaid employment outside ofthe family since March 2013. In particular, with respect to G there is medicalevidence supporting theproposition that G has confronted significant healthdifficulties including significant psychological issues. That evidence includesa medical report dated 11September 2014 confirming current difficulties for G ofsignificance related to a range of diagnosed conditions. That report confirmsthe need for G to have close supervision by her mother. I also accept thewifes evidence as to theneed to attend to these matters, and inparticular Gs needs. Whilsts 72 makes specific reference to a child of the marriage who has not yetattained the age of 18 years there cannot be any doubts 75(2) matters, inparticular s 75(2)(o), embracing this as a relevant consideration. Ialso accept the wifes evidence that she has been primarily responsiblewith the legal proceedings surrounding the resumptionof the land and businessof F and that she continues to be engaged in that activity up to one day perweek. Ialso accept the wifes evidence that she has suffered some health concernsof her own as set out in her affidavit. Thewife herself accepts a capacity for future employment. To that end during 2013she established the company SS Pty Ltd with aview to establishing a consultancybusiness in the food and hospitality industry. However, the wife advancesevidence that thisindustry currently faces financial challenges and the wifedid not advance that business or new consultancy at that stage in theclimatebeing faced. Importantly the wife records, I also needed funds to investthat I currently do not have and will nothave until my property settlement isresolved with [the husband]. Plainly, funding will be necessary for thewife to meaningfullyadvance a new business. Thewife has also attempted some small business marketing and has investigatedcourses she might undertake, but which require coststo be paid. Iam satisfied that at least in the short-term the wife does not have the capacityto meet her current needs within the meaning ofs 72(b) of the Act. I amsatisfied that she has need of the support she claims. Counselfor the husband contended to the effect that by reason of the longstanding andestablished nature of the wifes de factorelationship this was of itselfsufficient to preclude the wifes entitlement to interim spousalmaintenance. Plainly thefact that the wife is in such a relationship isrelevant under s 75(2)(m) and can be also taken into account within the meaningofs 75(2)(o). However,the wife details the financial circumstances of her cohabitation which includesthe feature that her de facto partnersbusiness is not substantial and isnot currently financial provident beyond being a source of financial support forher de factopartners own support. I find on the wifes evidencethat her de facto partner currently has no realistic financialcapacity tocontribute to the wifes support. In F and F (1982) FLC 91-214, acase to which the husbands counsel referred, Fogarty J at 77,149 (havingreferred to the relevance of a de facto relationship)addressed differentconsiderations which may apply where, inter alia, the other personconcerned has no financialcapacity to contribute. Iam satisfied that at least until the wife receives the partial property ordermade with respect to the sale proceeds of the X property,she has the need forthe claimed spousal maintenance on an interim basis and the husbandscapacity to meet that payment isnot in issue. Itis plainly relevant as a s 75(2)(o) matter at least that the source from whichthis will be met is from the N Group and relatedentities to which the wife hasmade substantial contributions over the length of the marriage and in thecircumstances of the marriageproducing four now adult children. Moreover, itis obviously relevant that the husband himself will continue to draw substantialweekly sums via that source. Thuspending settlement of the sale of the X property the husband shall cause thewife to be paid $2,178.00 per week plus gap medicaland dental expenses. Thisshould be subject to qualification, as sought by the husband, to the extent thatthe wife is able to derive some employment incometo contribute to her needs andI frame the order to reflect that. Other orders sought Thehusband deposes to his agreement to reduce his loan drawings from N Pty Ltd to$1,500.00 per week and an order to that effectcan be made by consent. Thehusband also records that in the event M Pty Ltd obtains an unconditionalcontract for the sale of property at B Street the husbandwill request theapproval of the board of M Pty Ltd to release the information that has beenrequested by the wife. Thehusband also deposes to his agreement to immediately inform the wife and keepher informed in relation to negotiations and/ordiscussions relating to the saleof any properties which are personally owned or majority-owned by N Pty Ltd orassociated entities. At[18.5] of his affidavit filed 24 September 2014 the husband deposes to hisagreed disclosure concerning bank statements and quarterlygeneral ledgers andquarterly management accounts for N Pty Ltd. On that basis orders by consentcan be made with respect to thoseissues but as to the balance of thewifes Application she will have liberty to seek to re-list theapplications, if she choosesto pursue them, on a further date and I will orderto that effect. Thehusband has deposed to his historical support of the now adult children which iscontinuing and implicitly will continue. Obviouslyit is a matter for the wifeif she chooses to further pursue her application for adult childmaintenance. I certify that the preceding ninety-nine (99) paragraphs area true copy of the reasons for judgment of the Honourable Justice Kentdeliveredon 21 October 2014. Associate: Date: 21 October2014 [1]See husbands affidavitfiled 24 September 2014 [4.1]  see page 5 of chronology entry dated1992. [2]Paragraph 8 ofhusbands affidavit filed 24 September2014. [3]Paragraph 3.3 ofhusbands affidavit filed 24 September2014. [4]Paragraph 6.1 ofhusbands affidavit filed 24 September2014. [5]Paragraph 3.1 ofhusbands affidavit filed 24 September2014. [6]Paragraphs 8.4 to 8.6 ofthe husbands affidavit filed 24 September 2014. AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/888.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  