FAMILY LAW  CHILDREN Leave granted to commence adoption proceedings  agency caninspect court file and makesuch use of copy documents as it deems fit. APPLICANT: Ms Laughlin RESPONDENT: Mr Jenkins INDEPENDENTCHILDRENS LAWYER: Ms Smith FILENUMBER: MLC 4356 of 2014 DATE DELIVERED: 8 October 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Melbourne PLACE HEARD: Melbourne JUDGMENT OF: Bennett J HEARING DATE: 8 October 2014 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: Mr Sayer SOLICITOR FOR THE APPLICANT: TJ Mulvany & Co COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENT: No appearance COUNSEL FOR THEINDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: Ms Harris SOLICITOR FOR THE INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: Victoria Legal Aid ORDERS ITIS ORDERED THAT MrLaughlin and Ms Laughlin (the applicants) have equal sharedparental responsibility for the children C Morgan born... 2001 and D Morganborn ... 2005 (the children). Thesaid children live with the applicants. Forthe purposes of s 33 of the Births Deaths and Marriages Registration Act 1998(Western Australia) this Court approves the registration of change of namefor the children so that henceforth C Morgan born ... 2001will be known as CLaughlin and D Morgan born ... 2005 will be known as D Laughlin and the Court issatisfied that those changesof names are in the best interests of each of thechildren. Pursuantto s 60G(1) of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) (the Act) theapplicants are hereby granted leave for proceedings to be commenced for theadoption of the childrenby the first named applicant Mr Laughlin, it beingdetermined that granting leave to do so is in the best interests of thechildren. Pursuantto r 24.13(1)(c) of the Family Law Rules 2004 (Cth) I grant the properofficer of any department or authority to whom an application is made inrelation to the adoption of thechildren to search the Court record in relationto this matter and to inspect and take copies of any documents forming part oftheCourt record and, for the avoidance of doubt, that person, authority ordepartment may make such use of the document or record ofthe Court as he/sheconsiders appropriate in the conduct of his/her statutoryduties. IT IS DIRECTED Thatthe independent childrens lawyer send a sealed copy of this Order and myreasons for decision (when published) to thebiological father at the last knownemail address that she has for him to advise him of the conclusion of theseproceedings. Myreasons for decision this day be transcribed and when settled be placed on theCourt file and published to the parties. IT IS FURTHERORDERED: Thatall extant applications are otherwise dismissed and this matter be removed fromthe pending cases list maintained by the Court. Thatpursuant to s 65DA(2) and s 62B of the Act the particulars and the obligationsthese orders create and the particulars of theconsequences that may follow if aperson contravenes these orders and details of who can assist parties adjust toand comply withan order are set out in the Fact Sheet attached hereto and thoseparticulars are included in these orders. IT IS NOTEDthat publication of this judgment by this Court under the pseudonymLaughlin & Jenkins has been approved by the Chief Justice pursuant tos 121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT MELBOURNE FILE NUMBER:MLC 4356 of 2014 Ms Laughlin Applicant And Mr Jenkins Respondent And Independent ChildrensLawyer REASONS FOR JUDGMENT EX TEMPORE Thismatter comes before me having been adjourned from the judicial duty list withthe children C, aged 13, and D, aged nine, nowhaving their interestsrepresented by an independent childrens lawyer, Ms Smith, of VictoriaLegal Aid. Today, Ms Harris ofcounsel appears on behalf of Ms Smith. Theapplicants, who are the mother and the stepfather of the children, did notattend court,but Mr Sayer, solicitor, appears on their behalf today. Therehave been some developments which are relevant to the application for leave tothe stepfather to adopt the children and forthe application of himself and themother that they have shared parental responsibility in relation to thechildren, the childrenlive with them and that the childrens family namebe changed to that of the stepfather being Laughlin. Sincethe hearing on 6 August 2014 the family has moved to Sydney. That may be apermanent move. The applicant stepfather has familyin Sydney, in particular,his mother. In any event, it is conceded by Mr Sayer that if adoptionproceedings are going to be taken,they will now need to be taken in the Stateof New South Wales rather than in the State of Victoria. Theindependent childrens lawyer was able to interview the childrenface-to-face yesterday when she happened to be in Sydney. It appears that thechildren are pleasant young people. The elder child has some recollection ofher father. She expressed somereluctance and doubt about being in any form ofdirect or indirect communication with her biological father by way of letters,giftsof photographs. The elder child has commenced high school and she hashappily been accepted into a sports team. Theyounger child is nine years old and has commenced school in New South Wales atprimary level. He is happy to be starting a martialart this week. Heexpresses no reluctance in relation to letters, gifts or photographs going tohis biological father but, by thesame token, appears to have no knowledge ofhis biological father or memory of him and that is indeed consistent with thetimelinesin these proceedings, as the children have not seen their father sinceapproximately 2007 when the younger child was only two yearsof age. Theindependent childrens lawyer caused three subpoenas to produce documentsto issue in September 2014. Those documents wereaccordingly produced byWestern Australian Police, Victoria Police and the Department of ChildProtection for Perth. The documentshave been released for inspection. I aminformed by counsel for the independent childrens lawyer that it appearsthat thebiological father and indeed the family were known to WesternAustralian Police and the protective services authorities which wouldbeDepartment of Child Protection and that there appears to be material relevant tofamily violence. Thereis no appearance by or on behalf of the biological father today. He is overseasand the court has not received any applicationfor him to participate byelectronic means. These orders and reasons for judgment will be sent to him. Iwill direct that the independentchildrens lawyer send a copy of thisorder and these reasons to him care of the electronic email address to which shehascorresponded recently. Theindependent childrens lawyer is content for the application for leave toadopt to be granted by this court. Clearly, thatis on the basis that theapplication will receive the scrutiny of the appropriate authorities in theState of New South Wales andultimately judicial scrutiny as well. Theindependent childrens lawyer also discussed the application that theirfamily name be changed from Morgan to Laughlin. Neither of the children arefixated on the change as the mothers affidavit suggests or as theapplicants affidavitsmaterial suggests, in which it is deposed atparagraphs 16 and 17 of their affidavit sworn on 9 April 2014: Thenature of the relationship which has developed between the children and [thestepfather] is such that they identify as and havesought to adopt the practiceof being known as [Laughlins]. We respectfully consider that in the absence ofthe change of name,this will be an ongoing issue for the children and we wishto have their surname legally reflect their views and also to lend unityto ourrespective surnames as we continue to live as a family. In addition to the above, we inform this Honourable Court that issues havealready arisen in relation to the childrens preferenceof using thesurname [Laughlin] with their school and will continue to arise in relation toobtaining licence permits, driverslicences, identification foradmissions, theatrical, sporting events, identification for travel and likematters. We are concernedthat in the absence of a change of name where thechildren are referred to pursuant to their current surname which is different toours, a necessary inquiry will follow which creates difficulty and discomfortfor the children. This is particularly in circumstances where the children have expresslyindicated to us and others that they have the preference ofusing the surname[Laughlin]. Theindependent childrens lawyers direct conversation with thechildren leads her to believe that the children are somewhatless committed to achange of name than the stepfather and the mother. Both have started a newschool. Both wondered if it couldcreate some confusion in their new school,however, neither child objected to the change of name. And then, by way ofconclusion,the elder child said in her brothers presence that it wouldbe preferable if they did both share the name of their motherand stepfather andhalf-sibling and the younger child did not object. Giventhe consent of the father to the mother and stepfather having parentalresponsibility, the fact that parental responsibilityand orders providing thatthe children live with the mother and stepfather and that their family name bechanged to Laughlin, I willmake orders in those terms. Iwill also grant the leave to adopt. I am satisfied that it is in the bestinterests of the children to make the order. Itdoes occur to me that the appropriate authorities for any adoption applicationmay be interested to look at this courtsfile. I will make an order thatthey be entitled to do so. For the avoidance of doubt, I will also make anorder that they canobtain copies of documents from the court file and then usethose documents in the course of handling whatever application they have. Thisshould obviate the need for those authorities or indeed the applicants to haveto return to court to seek relief from any confidentialityor privilege which issaid to attach to documents made in the course of other legal proceedings. I certify that the preceding thirteen (13) paragraphs are a truecopy of the reasons for judgment of the Honourable Justice Bennettdelivered on8 October 2014. Legal Associate: Date: 28 October2014 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/922.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             