FAMILY LAW  PROPERTYSETTLEMENT  INTERIM PROCEEDINGS  SPOUSAL MAINTENANCE  Wherethe wife sought to varyspousal maintenance orders made by consent Wherethe wife claimed the amount is not proper or adequate and that there hasbeen achange of her circumstances since the orders  Consideration of s 83 ofthe Family Law Act 1975 (Cth)  Where the wife failed todemonstrate that a variation of the orders is justified  Applicationdismissed. FAMILY LAW  PROPERTY SETTLEMENT  INTERIMPROCEEDINGS  Where the parties sought orders for partial propertysettlementin order to pay legal costs  Where there is substantial equityin the former matrimonial home  Where the amount soughtby each party wasinsignificant compared with the overall net assets  Where it was just andequitable to make orders for partialproperty settlement in favour of bothparties. Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) ss 79, 83 Cuny & Cuny [2014] FamCA825 Strahan and Strahan (2011) FLC 93-466 APPLICANT: Mr Cuny RESPONDENT: Ms Cuny FILENUMBER: SYC 1927 of 2013 DATE DELIVERED: 20 October 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Sydney PLACE HEARD: Sydney JUDGMENT OF: Rees J HEARING DATE: 10 October 2014 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: Mr Lloyd SC SOLICITOR FOR THE APPLICANT: Broun Abrahams Burreket COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENT: Mr Wheelhouse SC SOLICITOR FOR THE RESPONDENT: Rockwell Olivier ORDERS IT IS ORDERED (1) Thatthe wifes application filed on 2 September 2014 to vary the orders forinterim spousal maintenance made on 22 July2013 be dismissed. (2) That within seven days the husband and the wife pay, or cause to be paid, byway of interim property settlement, to the husbandthe sum of $120,000 and tothe wife the sum of $137,000. IT IS NOTED thatpublication of this judgment by this Court under the pseudonym Cuny and Cuny(No. 2) has been approved by the Chief Justice pursuant to s 121(9)(g) ofthe Family Law Act 1975 (Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT SYDNEY FILE NUMBER:SYC 1927 of 2013 Mr Cuny Applicant And Ms Cuny Respondent REASONS FOR JUDGMENT MrCuny (the husband) asks the Court to make an order for interimproperty settlement in the sum of $120,000 in favourof each of himself and MsCuny (the wife). The husbands application is that theinterim property settlementbe financed by a drawdown on the existing loanfacility with the National Australia Bank (the NAB loan facility).TheNAB loan facility is secured over the former matrimonial home located at LStreet, Suburb M (L Street). Thewife opposes the making of an interim property settlement in favour of thehusband but asks that the Court make an order thatthe husband pay $137,000 toher solicitors by way of interim property settlement. Thewife also applies for an order to vary spousalmaintenance. THE SPOUSAL MAINTENANCE APPLICATION Theorders for spousal maintenance which the wife seeks to vary were made on 22 July2013. Those orders, which were made by consent,made provision for the husbandto pay spousal maintenance in an amount of $923 per week (or $4,000 per calendarmonth) together withall expenses associated with L Street including municipaland water rates, telephone, Foxtel, gas, electricity, insurance, internetandsecurity. Thewife now seeks to vary those orders and asks the Court to make an order that thehusband pay to her $1,959 per week by way ofspousal maintenance. Theprovisions for modification of spousal maintenance orders are contained in s 83of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) (the Act). S 83(2) setsout the matters which the Court must consider as follows: (2) The court shall not make an order increasing or decreasing an amount orderedto be paid by an order unless it is satisfied: (a) that, since the order was made or last varied: (i) the circumstances of a person for whose benefit the order was made have sochanged (including the person entering into a stableand continuing de factorelationship); (ii) the circumstances of the person liable to make payments under the orderhave so changed; or (iii) in the case of an order that operates in favour of, or is binding on, alegal personal representative--the circumstances ofthe estate are such; as to justify its so doing; (b) that, since the order was made, or last varied, the cost of living haschanged to such an extent as to justify its so doing; (ba) in a case where the order was made by consent--that the amount ordered tobe paid is not proper or adequate; (c) that material facts were withheld from the court that made the order or froma court that varied the order or material evidencepreviously given before sucha court was false. SeniorCounsel for the wife submits that the Court should take into account twomatters. Firstly, that the orders made on 22 July2013 were made by consent andsecondly that there has been a change in the wifes circumstances in thather health has deterioratedand her cost of living has increased. Inrelation to the first submission, which relies upon s 83(2)(ba) of the Act, itis contended on behalf of the wife that the amount which was ordered to be paidon 22 July 2013 was not proper oradequate. On22 July 2013, the matter was listed before the Court for determination, interalia, of the wifes application for spousal maintenance. She sought anorder that the husband pay spousal maintenance, pending furtherorder, in thesum of $1,954 per week in addition to electricity, gas and Foxtel/Internetpayments, fees and rates. The order whichthe wife seeks before me today by wayof variation is in approximately the same amount as that which she sought on22 July 2013. Inthe proceedings on 22 July 2013, the wife was represented by Counsel instructedby her current solicitors. Insupport of her application for spousal maintenance on 22 July 2013, the wiferelied upon a Financial Statement sworn on 18 June2013. In that FinancialStatement she deposed to having income from a rental property but no income byway of employment. That remainsthe wifes position today. AtPart N of that Financial Statement the wife assessed her personal weeklyexpenses at $1,508. On22 July 2013, the parties reached an agreement and orders were made, by consent,that the husband pay to the wife the sum of $4,000per calendar month (or $923per week). Theexpenses claimed by the wife in the Financial Statement sworn18 June 2013, at Part N, included, for example, $368 per week foreducational expenses (flying lessons), $91 per week for pharmaceutical expenses,$100 per week for house cleaning, $85 per week fortelephone, $80 per week forpetrol. Itis unsurprising that some compromise was reached between the parties as to thequantum of the order for spousal maintenance. Itis not, however, open to thewife, having compromised her claim on 22 July 2013, to now assert that theamount which was orderedto be paid is not proper or adequate. It was open toher on 22 July 2013, had she chosen to do so, and had she been of the view thatthe amount which was agreed to by the husband was inadequate, to run her case onthat day. She cannot now assert that the amountto which she agreed, in thosecircumstances, was neither proper nor adequate. Thenext matter upon which the wife relies is that it is asserted on her behalf thather health has deteriorated and her cost of livinghas increased. Inrelation to the issue of the wifes health, the wife relies upon anaffidavit of Ms R who is a clinical psychologist. MsR has been thewifes treating therapist since 19 August 2013 and expresses the view thatthe wife has a major depressive disorderand a generalised anxiety disorder. MsR expressed the view that the wife is unable to work, but since the wife was notworking whenthe consent orders were made in July 2013, that does not constitutea change of circumstances. Insofaras it is asserted on behalf of the wife that her costs of living have increased,Senior Counsel for the wife relies upon theexpenses which the wife now incursfor medical treatment. Inrelation to the claimed medical expenses the wife, in her Financial Statementsworn 2 September 2014, in support of the presentapplication, claims thoseexpenses to be club membership of $15 per week, yoga of $87 per week andcounselling of $150 per week. On15 September 2014 the solicitors for the husband wrote two letters to thesolicitors for the wife requesting that they providedocumentary verification ofthe wifes claims in relation to her asserted mobile telephone costs of$90 per week, parking costs/faresof $65 per week, medical, dental, opticalexpenses of $85 per week, counselling costs of $150 per week,chemist/pharmaceutical expensesof $91 per week, Telstra/Internet costs of $63per week, educational expenses of $368 per week and yoga expenses of $87 perweek. Whilstsome documents were produced to the husbands solicitors on the morning ofthe hearing, no documents were produced whichcame within the categories set outin the letters of 15 September 2014. Thewife was on notice that her evidence in relation to the expenses referred to inthose letters was challenged. In those circumstancesshe bore the onus ofproving the expenses. No documents were tendered in the wifes case tosubstantiate those claimed expensesand accordingly the wife has failed todemonstrate that her medical expenses, or her living expenses, haveincreased. Leavingaside the expenses which were challenged in the letters dated 15 September2014, many of the expenses claimed by the wifein Part N of the FinancialStatement sworn on 18 June 2013 were in fact greater than those which she claimsin the Financial Statementsworn 2 September 2014. For example shepreviously claimed an expense of $200 per week for food but that expense has nowreducedto $150. Thewife has failed to demonstrate that her circumstances have so changed that avariation of the orders for spousal maintenance isjustified in accordance withs 83 of the Act. IfI am in error in relation to that assessment and I am required to consider whatorders should be made for spousal maintenance,I note that it was conceded onbehalf of the wife that the amount of $368 per week for flying lessons (beingthe educational expensesreferred to above) was no longer claimed. The totalpersonal weekly expenses outlined by the wife in Part N of her FinancialStatementsworn 2 September 2014, including the educational expenses, hadamounted to $1,959. The expenses, other than the educational expenses,whichwere challenged by the husbands solicitors in the letters dated15 September 2014, totalled $631 per week. Thus thewife has eitherabandoned or been unable to prove $999 ($368 plus $631) of expenses, leaving herwith unchallenged expenses of $960per week. In circumstances where the husbandis currently paying $923 per week together with all of the costs of maintainingthehome in which the wife lives, it would not be appropriate to vary theorder. Thewifes application will be dismissed. INTERIM PROPERTY SETTLEMENT Thehusband by an Application in a Case filed 11 July 2014 seeks the followingorder: That within seven days by way of partial property settlement the Husband and theWife pay or cause to be paid to the Husband thesum of $120,000 for interimcosts with such funds coming from the drawdown facility with National AustraliaBank secured over theproperty [L Street, Suburb M]. Insubmissions before me, Senior Counsel for the husband conceded that it would beappropriate for a similar amount to be providedto the wife by way of partialproperty settlement and by the same mechanism. Thewife in a response filed on 2 September 2014 seeks the followingorder: That within twenty-eight (28) days from the date of these orders, the husbandpay the sum of $137,000 to the wifes solicitors(named) by way of clearedfunds. Thewife sought that the husbands application for interim property settlementbe dismissed. BothSenior Counsel approached the applications as an exercise of power pursuant to s79 of the Act. Nosubmissions were directed to the appropriateness, or otherwise, of the sumssought respectively by the husband and by the wifeand I will proceed on thebasis that no issue is taken that the amounts sought are reasonable (noting thatit is the wifescase that no interim distribution should be made to thehusband). Somewhatcuriously, in submissions, Senior Counsel for the husband submitted the Courthad no power to order the husband to draw downon the NAB loan facility securedon L Street in order to pay an amount of money to the wife by way of interimproperty settlement.However, it was submitted that the Court could make theorders sought by the husband, in favour of both parties, because the husbandconsented to a draw down on these terms. Itis not necessary to determine that issue here because the husband has conceded,by virtue of his application that each of the husbandand the wife receive$120,000 by way of interim property settlement, that he has the capacity toraise those funds. Thematters to be taken into consideration when determining whether interim propertysettlement orders should be made are set outin the decision of the Full Courtin Strahan and Strahan (2011) FLC 93-466. The Full Court made it clearthat it is not necessary for a party to establish compelling circumstances tojustify the exercise ofdiscretion and the Full Court recognised that it may beappropriate to make orders which would allow the parties to fund theirlitigation. Onbehalf of the wife, Senior Counsel submitted that it was inappropriate to makean order in favour of the husband because the husbandhad a high disposableincome and had not demonstrated to the Court that it was not possible for him tofund his litigation from hisincome. Ihave already made findings in relation to the husbands available income.In my judgment delivered on 11 September 2014. Thosefindings are reproducedhere: 13. The husband discloses a gross income of $1,072,000 per annum. That incomeincludes a distribution from the [Cuny] Family Trust.It is an agreed fact thatthe [Cuny] Family Trust is an alter ego of the husband. There is no evidence ofthe current income or assetsof the [Cuny] Family Trust. In the year ended 30June 2013, the [Cuny] Family Trust made distributions totalling $255,000 tothehusbands adult children. In that year, the income of the [Cuny]Family Trust was $352,380. All of that income was availableto the husband. 14. Bank statements tendered in the wifes case show thatat least in July and August 2013 the spousal maintenance that waspaid for thebenefit of the wife pursuant to the orders made 22 July 2013 was paid from the[Cuny] Family Trust. Credit card statementsfor the husband tendered in thewifes case showed substantial discretionary spending including $31,955 to[P Jewellers] inSeptember 2013. Between 16 October 2013 and 1 August 2014, some$260,000 was paid into the husbands American Express account. 15. Bank statements for the husbands National Australia Bank accountending in the numbers ...88 show that in 2013 the husbandpaid his daughter [Q]$42,500. The husband has superannuation entitlements in a self managed fundvalued at $2,111,000. He drawsa pension from the fund of $82,576 per year whichis disclosed as part of his income in his financial statement. However, there isno evidence of the maximum amount that the husband would be entitled to draw. SeniorCounsel for the wife drew attention to the Regulations relating to the limits ontransition to retirement pensions. It maybe that the husband could have accessto his superannuation fund to draw money for the payment of legal fees but,whether he draws$120,000 from superannuation or from the line of credit makesno difference to the net amount of the property pool. Theargument on behalf of the husband is that he also needs a partial propertysettlement in order to finance his legal fees. It appearsto be his contentionthat he cannot fund his legal fees from his income without curtailing hislifestyle and that there is no othersource for a lump sum to be provided to hislawyers than from the equity in the former matrimonial home. Inresponse, Senior Counsel for the wife submits that there should be no payment tothe husband because that sum will somehow be lostin the final determination ofthe applications for property settlement. Afurther matter relied upon by the wife is that the husband is not currentlymaking any payments towards the costs of the NAB loanfacility secured over LStreet and that, it is submitted, he ought not be permitted to increase theindebtedness. That is a matterthat will no doubt be considered by the TrialJudge when the proceedings are finally determined. However, in the meantime, noissueis raised by the lender which would suggest that no further funds can beadvanced. On the contrary, it is agreed that the partiescan draw down in excessof $1 million on the NAB loan facility. LStreet has been valued by a single expert at $6 million. On any version of theevidence, there is at least $5 million worth of equityin the property. Itis not suggested in either case that an interim distribution of $120,000 to eachparty, or of $137,000 to the wife, would be incapableof being absorbed into afinal distribution. Thereis no reason that the substantial equity in L Street should not be available, atleast in part, to both of the parties to usein whatever manner they see fit. Theamount which they each seek is minute compared with the overall net assets whichare available for division. Iam satisfied that it is just and equitable in the exercise of power pursuant tos 79 of the Act to make a small portion of the assets of the partiesavailable to each of them. Inote that each party says that the funds are to be used to pay legal costs. Theparties can choose whether to pay the amounts by drawing down on the NAB loanfacility, which they both agree is available, orfrom any other source. I certify that the preceding forty-eight (48) paragraphs are atrue copy of the reasons for judgment of the Honourable Justice Reesdeliveredon 20 October 2014. Associate: Date: 20/10/2014 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/884.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     