FAMILY LAW  PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE Joinder  where paternal grandmother seeks to intervene in proceedingspaternal grandmother will seek an order to spend time with the child matter already listed for trial  leave to intervenegranted onthe condition that the paternal grandmother specify orders sought. Family Law Rules 2004 (Cth) r 6.05 APPLICANT: Ms Parker 1st RESPONDENT: Ms Medwell 2nd RESPONDENT: Mr Calvett INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: Ian Charman andAssociates FILENUMBER: ADC 4367 Of 2013 DATE DELIVERED: 30 September 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Adelaide PLACE HEARD: Adelaide JUDGMENT OF: Dawe J HEARING DATE: 30 September 2014 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: Ms Jobson SOLICITOR FOR THE APPLICANT: The Family Law Project COUNSEL FOR THE 1ST RESPONDENT: Mr Fryer SOLICITOR FOR THE 1ST RESPONDENT: Adelaide Lawyers COUNSEL FOR THE 2ND RESPONDENT: n/a SOLICITOR FOR THE 2ND RESPONDENT: n/a COUNSELFOR THE INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: MrCharman SOLICITOR FOR THE INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: Ian Charman and Associates ORDERS (1) Leaveis granted for the paternal grandmother to intervene in the proceedings UPONCONDITION THAT: (a) on orbefore 4.00 pm on Tuesday 14 October 2014 the paternal grandmother file andserve a Response to the Initiating Applicationsetting out specific details oforders sought for time to be spent with the child S born on ... May2013; (b) on or before 4.00 pm on Friday 24 October 2014 the paternal grandmother fileand serve an affidavit of Evidence-in-Chief suchaffidavit to include copies ofall exhibits upon which the paternal grandmother proposes torely. IT IS NOTED that publication of this judgment by this Court underthe pseudonym Parker & Medwell and Anor has been approved by theChief Justice pursuant to s 121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act 1975(Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT ADELAIDE FILE NUMBER:ADC 4367 of 2013 Ms Parker Applicant And Ms Medwell First Respondent And Mr Calvett SecondRespondent EX TEMPORE REASONS FOR JUDGMENT Ihave before me today an Application in a Case filed on 26 August 2014 on behalfof the paternal grandmother, Ms Parker. The Applicationin a Case seeks ordersthat: (1) thisapplication be heard urgently as the matter is listed for trial; (2) theapplicant paternal grandmother be granted liberty to intervene in theseproceedings. Theaffidavit filed on the same day sets out the history of the litigation betweenthe mother and the father concerning the childS (the child), andpast relevant matters. Much of that evidence is already before the Court. Thereis an indication that the paternal grandmother has some interaction with herson, but it appears that she has not been ableto access copy documents forthese proceedings through her son. Inthe affidavit she does not specify what orders she would be seeking if she wasgranted leave to intervene, save and except in paragraph33: I seek an order to be at liberty to intervene in the proceedings. If grantedliberty to be joined as a party I will be seeking anorder to spend time with[the child]. Whenthat difficulty was raised with counsel this morning, the matter was stood downso she could take instructions as she did nothave instructions about the sortof order the paternal grandmother would be seeking if she was given leave tocome before the Courtin the trial which is already listed. Whenthe matter returned before me, there was an indication that the paternalgrandmother would be seeking supervised time every secondweekend for two hoursuntil an attachment was established and then further changes to thosearrangements depending upon, as I understandit, the attachment. Theproceedings that are currently before the Court between the mother and fatherconcern the best interests of the child, who wasborn in May 2013. The currentorders provide for the child to live with the mother. Thereare serious issues raised in the documents already before the Court concerningthe need to protect the child. The matter hasbeen set down for trial andspecific orders made on 10 June 2014 for the matter to be prepared for trialcommencing on 8 December2014. Included in those orders made in June was anorder that there be a section 62G(2) report prepared. I am told from the bartable that appointments were made for the mother and father to attend upon theFamily Consultantpreparing the assessment last week. TheCourt has the capacity to dispense with the Family Law Rules 2004 (Cth) if theyare not obeyed. The failure to comply with rule 6.05 in this case can bedispensed with. In particular, the question of what is in the bestinterests of the child will include factorsrelevant to the childsAboriginal heritage which is referred to in paragraph 32 of the paternalgrandmothers affidavit. Thefather has not attended today and there is no one appearing on his behalf. Itappears from remarks made from the bar table bycounsel for the paternalgrandmother that the father did not consider it necessary for him to attendtoday. That explanation isunsatisfactory. However,taking into account all of the factors, I am of a view that notwithstanding themothers opposition to the paternalgrandmother participating in theproceedings, that it is appropriate to grant leave to the paternal grandmotherprovided that thereare conditions attached to that leave which will ensure thatthe matter is still prepared for trial on the dates set and there isno delay inhearing the matter so that final orders can be made relieving the parties fromfurther litigation as soon as possible. That is a factor which I consider wouldbe in the best interests of the child in any event. TheCourt will therefore grant leave for the paternal grandmother to intervene inthe proceedings on conditions. Theonly evidence the paternal grandmother is proposing to call is that of herself. TheIndependent Childrens Lawyer will endeavour to arrange for the familyconsultant to consider the paternal grandmothersapplication, and, ifpossible, conduct necessary interviews. Once the paternal grandmother hascomplied with the orders, she willbe a party to the file so the legalrepresentatives will have access to the file. Theorders of 10 June 2014 are maintained. The matter remains listed for acompliance check before me on 25 November at 9.15 am andthe matter remainslisted for the final trial commencing on 8 December 2014 for seven days. Whenthe trial is before me, I will be concerned to ensure that the cross-examinationof the mothers witnesses by the counselfor the paternal grandmother dealwith the issue of time spent with the paternal grandmother. The father and hiscounsel will dealwith the issue of final orders concerning parentalresponsibility and with whom the child lives. Iwill not be giving the paternal grandmother or her counsel open slather to delaythe trial or ask questions which deal with issueswhich do not relate to thepaternal grandmothers time with the child and the conditions that shouldapply if there is anytime granted. Thefather is already on notice that if he does not comply with the orders and filedocuments as already ordered, the question ofparental responsibility, with whomthe child lives and his time with the child may be dealt with in his absence andon a what isdescribed as an undefended basis. Icertify that the preceding eighteen (18) paragraphs are a true copy of thereasons for judgment of the Honourable Justice Dawe deliveredon 30 September2014. Associate: Date: 9 October 2014 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/854.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                