FAMILY LAW  CHILDREN Final  Undefended hearing  With whom a child spends time Where interim ordersprovided for the child to have supervised time withthe father  Where the mother has not participated in these proceedingssince the making of the interim orders nor has she responded to attempts tocontact her  Where the mother has not compliedwith orders and has notprovided the child for time with the father  Where the trial was heard onan undefended basis Where final parenting orders are made on anundefended basis Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) APPLICANT: Mr Buckley RESPONDENT: Ms Buckley INDEPENDENTCHILDRENS LAWYER: Mr Grainger, Solicitor FILENUMBER: BRC 3227 of 2011 DATE DELIVERED: 15 October 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Brisbane PLACE HEARD: Brisbane JUDGMENT OF: Kent J HEARING DATE: 15 October 2014 REPRESENTATION SOLICITORFOR THE APPLICANT: Ms Wickham, Solicitor, JMW Legal COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENT: No appearance SOLICITOR FOR THE INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: Mr Grainger, Solicitor, Legal Aid Queensland ORDERS IT IS ORDERED THAT: Thechild, B born ... July 2005, live with the Mother. TheFather, the Mother and the paternal grandparents Mr J Buckley and Ms M Buckley,shall have shared parental responsibility forthe major long term issues inrespect of the child. TheFather spend time with the child each alternate Sunday for a period of five (5)hours commencing at 10.30 am with changeover tooccur at the commencement oftime the Father spends with the child at the C Town Contact Centre, and at thecessation of the Fatherspending time with the child at the Suburb P ContactCentre with such time to be in the presence of the paternal grandparents and/orpaternal family. TheFather and Mother will attend any intake interview and complete all necessarypaperwork as required by each Contact Centre. 5. The cost ofchangeover at each Contact Centre be paid by the Father. TheFather, in the presence of the paternal grandparents and/or paternal family beat liberty to be involved with the childsschooling (including herschooling via Brisbane Distance Education) and with her extracurricularactivities with these Orders toact as the authority for the childseducation providers, extracurricular activity providers and treating doctors tothe effectthat each party be able to contact same and be advised of thechilds treatment and/or progress and obtain reports, schoolphotographs,newsletters and the like after the payment of any necessaryfee. Pursuantto s 68B(1) of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) for the personal protectionof the Father and his parents, an injunction hereby issue such that the Mother,her servants and/oragents be restrained from having any contact with the Fatherand/or his parents by any means including in person, by telephone, inwriting orby electronic communication at all times. Pursuantto s 68B(1) of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) for the personal protectionof the Father and his parents, an injunction hereby issue such that the Mother,her servants and/oragents be restrained from entering or remaining in any placeof residence or employment of the Father and/or his parents. Allcopies of statutory declarations signed by the Father dated 27 November 2010 and13 December 2010 held in the possession of theMother, her servants and/oragents and her legal representatives (current and former), be returned to theFathers solicitorfor destruction within seven (7) days of service ofthis Order. Alloutstanding Applications be dismissed and removed from the pending caseslist. 11. The Independent Childrens Lawyer bedischarged. Pursuantto s 62B and s 65DA(2) of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth), the particulars of the obligations these Orders create and theparticulars of the consequences that may follow if a person contravenes these Orders, anddetails of who can assist parties to adjust to and comply with an order, are set outin the document entitled Parenting orders  obligations, consequencesand who can help, a copy of which is annexed to these Orders. IT IS NOTED that publication of this judgment by this Court underthe pseudonym Buckley & Buckley (No. 2) has been approved bythe Chief Justice pursuant to s 121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act 1975(Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT BRISBANE FILE NUMBER:BRC 3227 of 2011 Mr Buckley Applicant And Ms Buckley Respondent EX TEMPORE REASONS FOR JUDGMENT Theseproceedings under Part VII of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) (theAct) concern the child B (the child), born in July 2005,who is now nine years of age. On14 April 2011, the applicant, Mr Buckley, whom I will refer to as thefather, commenced proceedings by way of hisInitiating Application filedin the then Federal Magistrates Court which Application was later amended on 16November 2012. Therespondent, Ms Buckley, whom I shall refer to as themother, filed a Response to the Initiating Application on 21 July2011, and her Response was subsequently amended and re-filed on 12 November2012. Throughout the proceedings, the interests of thechild have beenindependently represented by an Independent Childrens Lawyer (theICL) appointed pursuant tos 68L of the Act. Theparenting proceedings proceeded to a final trial before Bell J on 30 May 2013for several days until 4 June 2013. In the result,Bell J pronounced interimparenting orders and delivered Reasons for Judgment with respect to those orderson 21 June 2013. Thecentral issues for trial were allegations that the child was at an unacceptablerisk of harm in the unsupervised care or timeof the father. There were alsoissues surrounding the fathers mental capacity and his intellectualdisability, which hisHonour addressed in some detail in his Reasons forJudgment. It is also clear from those Reasons that issues concerning potentialparental alienation of the child by the mother and the maternal grandmother inparticular, were dealt with by his Honour. WhilstI will not detail in any substantive way the Reasons delivered by Bell J, thosereasons should be read with these Reasons fora full understanding of thismatter. Insummary, Bell J was not satisfied that the father presented any unacceptablerisk of abuse to the child. His Honours concernsabout thefathers parenting capacity appeared to be limited to the diminishment ofthat capacity by reference to the fathersintellectual disabilities. Itwas on that basis that his Honour made interim orders for there to be graduatedand increasing timebetween the father and the child with the assistance to thefather of supervision of the paternal grandparents. I emphasise thatthe ordersfor supervision by the paternal grandparents were to address any issuesconcerning the fathers capacity to parentby reason of his intellectualdisability and were not referrable to any potential unacceptable risk of harm,which his Honour rejectedas being the case. HisHonour also made orders which contemplated the matter returning to Court forfinal determination after some certain processesset out in those orders werefollowed. Those processes included the obtaining of an updated family reportafter some months hadelapsed from the time of the orders. It is clear that, inthe result, the mother was non-compliant with the processes contemplatedby hisHonours orders to facilitate the further determination of the matter. For example, that non-compliance included themother not on any single occasiondelivering the child for changeover to have time with the father as required bythose orders. It would seem that, in the result, the father has not seen thechild since some time prior to the trial before Bell J in June 2013. Subsequently,a number of orders have been made. On 9 July 2013, the mother filed a Notice ofAppeal against Bell Js orders, andthat appeal was heard by the Full Court on 17September 2013. However, it seems that the parties had entered into a parentingagreementwhich appears to have rendered the appeal nugatory on the basis thatsuch a parenting agreement would supersede parenting orders. Strickland Jdelivered ex tempore Reasons on behalf of the Full Court with Murphy and Tree JJconcurring and made orders that themothers Amended Notice of Appeal bedismissed and that she pay the fathers costs of and incidental to theappeal. On26 July 2013, the father filed an Application for Contravention of theJune 2013 parenting orders. That Application came beforeBell J on a dutyhearing on 26 November 2013. It seems that the 26 November 2013 is the lastoccasion that the mother, or a representativeon her behalf, has attendedproceedings or Court events in this Court. On that occasion, Bell J made ordersinter alia that thefathers Application for Contravention beadjourned for further hearing before his Honour on 19 December 2013. There isalsoa declaration within those orders stating that the alleged parentingagreement dated 17 August 2013 is not in accordance with s 64D of the Act. Asjust noted, it seems that, following the hearing on 26 November 2013, the motherhas not actively participated inany way in the proceedings in this Court, norhas she responded to attempts to contact her. On 10 December 2013, the mothers then solicitors filed a Notice ofCeasing to Act, at which time the mother became self-representingin theproceedings, but she has not filed any further documents in the proceedingssince then. The mother has not, subsequent tothe filing of the Notice ofCeasing to Act, attended any Court hearings either in person or by telephone,nor has she caused anyrepresentative to appear on her behalf. Atthe further hearing of the fathers Application for Contravention on19 December 2013, the mother did not appear, and BellJ made orders in herabsence that the parents be restrained from removing the child from Australia;that the childs name beplaced on the Airport Watch List and that theparents and the paternal grandparents have shared parental responsibility forthe child. Further,on 20 December 2013, Bell J adjourned the fathers Application forContravention to 16 January 2014 and made informationorders directed to theDepartment of Human Services, the Department of Immigration and BorderProtection and the Australia FederalPolice in an effort for the mother to belocated. I note that the Court has received monthly correspondence from theaforementionedgovernment departments indicating that their records do not holdany material in relation to the mother or the child, nor any informationinrelation to the specified address where the mother used to reside. I aminformed this morning that the mother continues to reside,it seems, at theSuburb Y address stated to be her address historically, but that she has removedthe child from formal school attendanceand, according to education departmentrecords, is now attending to home schooling of the child. On16 January 2014, Bell J ordered that the fathers Application forContravention be adjourned to the duty list on 24 March2014, and his Honouralso issued injunctions pursuant to s 68B(1) of the Act in favour of the fatherand the paternal family preventingthe mother from contacting the father or thepaternal family by any means and precluding her from entering any place ofresidenceor employment of the father or his parents or from contacting thefathers employers by any means. On24 March 2014, these proceedings came before me for a duty hearing. The motherdid not appear on that occasion, and the fatherand the ICL then sought and Igranted orders to the effect that enabled them to effect substituted serviceupon the mother of relevantmaterial and relevant applications made in the thenrecent past, and also provided for service upon the mother on a substitutedbasisof the orders I made on 24 March 2014. Those orders provided for thefather and the ICL to proceed to have further final parentingorders heard anddetermined on an undefended basis, given the mothers apparentunwillingness to cooperate further in the proceedings. I also ordered that theproceedings be adjourned for final hearing before Bell J, if possible, on 4 July2014. In the result, dueto Bell Js ill health, that could notoccur. Pursuantto the orders of 24 March 2014, the fathers solicitors effected serviceupon the mother by sending a letter to themothers last known address,and, it seems, also to the maternal grandmother, which set out the date and timefor the adjournedfinal hearing on 4 July 2014 and incorporated copies of myorders and Reasons for Judgment delivered on 24 March 2014 and the finalordersthat were sought by the father. On6 June 2014, the fathers solicitor filed an affidavit setting out thesteps she had taken to effect service upon the mother. At paragraph 5 of thataffidavit, Ms Wickman deposes that, as at the date of signing that affidavit,neither of the letters sentto the mother or the maternal grandmother had beenreturned to sender, nor had she received any response. Dueto Bell Js continuing ill health, the fathers Application forfinal parenting orders and Application for Contraventionwere re-listed for casemanagement before me on todays date. For the record, the Court sentcorrespondence to all parties,including the mother, specifying that the matterhas been listed for hearing today, and I record that the Court has not receivedany response from the mother, nor has any correspondence from the Court to herbeen returned to sender via the postal service. Exhibit1 in the proceedings is a letter dated 10 April 2014 sent by the fatherssolicitor to the mother at her last knownaddress setting out the orders thatwould be sought. The ICL does not oppose the making of any of those orders,albeit that theICL has no view one way or the other on the order identified inparagraph 8 of that letter, being an order for the destruction ofcertainstatutory declarations, which I will refer to again shortly. The Fatherssolicitor confirmed that the father doesnot wish to pursue his Application forContravention and consents to that Application being dismissed to achievefinality. Therules of procedural fairness and natural justice need to be considered beforedetermining any matter on an undefended basis. Within the rule of proceduralfairness lies the indispensible requirement of the Courts system ofjustice that a party affectedby a decision have the opportunity to be heard. As highlighted by Kirby J in Allesch v Maunz [2000] HCA 40; (2000) 203 CLR 172, where apersons interest may be adversely affected by a courts decision,that person must be afforded an opportunityto place before the court materialand information and submissions before the decision is made. However,as was emphasised by Kirby J, it is the opportunity to be heard which isessential to procedural fairness, not that the courtmust receive evidence orsubmissions on behalf of that party before orders are made; that is, theprinciple does not require thedecision-maker to actually hear from the party. As Kirby J observed at paragraph 38 of Allesch vMaunz: ...Sometimes, through stubbornness, confusion,misunderstanding, fear or other emotions, a party may not take advantage of theopportunityto be heard, although, such opportunity is provided. Affording theopportunity is all that the law and principle require. Asalready noted, the mother has filed no material in these proceedings since herlegal representative filed a Notice of Ceasing toAct on 10 December 2013. Atall material times, the mother has been well aware that the parentingproceedings had to come to a finalconclusion. As observed, the mother has notattended any Court events, when it was self-evident that the father, and indeed,theICL would be seeking final parenting orders to be made. Iam satisfied that the mother has had the opportunity to be heard within theprinciples of procedural fairness and natural justiceI have referred to and haschosen not to participate in the proceedings. I am satisfied it is in theinterests of the child, thesubject of these proceedings, that there be finalityto them. PartVII of the Act provides the statutory framework in which the Court exercises itspowers to make parenting orders. Most of theamendments to Part VII which tookeffect in June 2012 do not apply to these proceedings given that they werecommenced prior to thedate of those amendments. Section60(B) of the Act sets out the objects of Part VII including to ensure the bestinterests of children are met and details howthose objectives are achieved, andthe principles which underlie those objects. Relevantly to this case, one ofthe principle objectsof Part VII is to ensure that children have the benefit ofboth of their parents having a meaningful involvement in their lives tothemaximum extent consistent with the best interests of the child. Further, toprotect children from physical or psychologicalharm, from being subjected to orexposed to abuse, neglect or family violence. Section 60CA of the Act requiresthat in decidingwhether to make a particular parenting order in relation to achild, the Court must regard the childs best interests as theparamountconsideration. Section60CC of the Act identifies the primary considerations and the additionalconsiderations the Court must consider in determiningwhat is in thechilds best interests. That requirement is supplemented by the furtherrequirement for the Court to considerthe extent to which each parent hasfulfilled or failed to fulfil responsibilities as a parent in the particularrespects identifiedin subsection (4) of s 60CC. Section65D of the Act provides the source of the Courts power to make aparenting order as defined. That section expresslyprovides that this power issubject to, inter alia, section 61DA of the Act. Section 61DA(1) requires theCourt to apply a presumptionthat it is in the best interests of the child forthe childs parents to have equal shared parental responsibility for thechild. The presumption does not apply in circumstances of abuse or familyviolence and the presumption may be rebutted by evidencethat satisfies theCourt that it would not be in the best interests of the child for thechilds parents to have equal sharedparental responsibility. Theeffect of s 65DAA of the Act is that if the Court is making an order providingthat a childs parents are to have equalshared parental responsibility,then the Court must consider whether it is in the best interests of the childand reasonably practicablefor the child to spend equal time with each of theparents, and if it is, to consider that order, and if not, the Court mustconsideran order for substantial and significant time with each of theparents. Inthis case, the father, by his solicitor, has reached the position that theorders he presses for would see him having only fivehours of time eachalternate Sunday with that time to be in the presence of the paternalgrandparents or paternal family membersand with changeovers with respect tothat time to occur at a contact centre. Thereis also an order sought that the father, again, within the presence of his ownparents or paternal family members  beat liberty to be involved with thechilds schooling and extracurricular activities. The father does notpursue by way offinal orders the orders for more extended time, includingovernight time, as was provided for in the interim orders made by BellJ asreferred to. Itis clear on the history to which I have referred, and in particular the Reasonsfor Judgment delivered by Bell J, that in manyrespects the mother has dismallyfailed this child with respect to the proper exercise of parental care andresponsibility. HisHonour Justice Bell determined that there was nounacceptable risk to the child of having time with the father by reason of anyallegedsexual abuse and the only limitation upon him, as I have alreadyreferred to, was in relation to his intellectual disability. Thatlimitationwas met by the involvement of his own parents in spending time with thechild. Iam satisfied that the orders sought by the father as set out in Exhibit 1 oughtbe made in the childs best interests in thecircumstances that present. By this, I emphasise that the father seeks the orders sought recognising thereality of the situationthat confronts him with respect to the mothersabject failure to comply not only with orders of this Court, but with respecttowhat would best meet the interests of the child, the subject of theseproceedings. Itwould seem that the father, with the assistance of his parents, has made apractical decision as to the final orders that oughtbe made that give him somechance of having some meaningful involvement and participation in thechilds life, given the abjectfailure of the mother, and, I suspect, ofher own mother in recognising what is best for this child. Withrespect to the orders seeking the destruction of statutory declarations, I amsatisfied that it would, given the findings madeby Bell J with respect to thecircumstances in which those statutory declarations were created, namely thatthey were the productof some influence over the father given his intellectualdisability, that it would not be in the childs best interests forversions or copies of those statutory declarations to be circulated by themother or her agents to any person. I am therefore satisfiedthat an orderought be made pursuant to s 68B(1) by way of mandatory injunction requiringthat those copies of statutory declarationsbe returned as ordered. Forthese reasons, I make orders in terms of paragraphs 1 to 8 of Exhibit 1. Ishould note that those orders include an order forequal shared parentalresponsibility as between the parents and the paternal grandparents. Usually ina case such as this, it wouldbe self-evident that such an order would havelittle prospect of success, given the lack of relationship between any of thepartiesconcerned as between the father and his parents and the mother on theother hand. However,I make that order in this case in circumstances where it may at least, to someextent, achieve some redress of the motherscapacity to attempt to defeator preclude the fathers relationship with his child and to defeat ordersof this Court. Forthese reasons, I make the orders referred to. I will order that allApplications be removed from the pending cases list and bedismissed. Iwill formally order that the ICL be discharged. I certify thatthe preceding thirty-seven (37) paragraphs are a true copy of the reasons forjudgment of the Honourable Justice Kentdelivered on 15 October2014. Associate: Date: 15 October 2014 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/876.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               