FAMILY LAW  SPOUSAL MAINTENANCE  interim  where wifehas primary care of children  where wifesincome is less thanexpenses  where discretionary spending can be reduced  wherehusband has capacity to pay pending sale of family home  pendingfinal property proceedings Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) ss 72, 74, 75 Brown and Brown [2007] FamCA 151; (2007) FLC93-316 Clauson and Clauson (1995) FLC 92-595 Curnow and Curnow(Unreported, Sydney 28 April 1997) Eliades and Eliades (1981) FLC91-022 In the Marriage of Bevan (1995) FLC 92-600, (1993) 19FamLR 35 N & N (1997) FLC 92-782 Nutting and Nutting (1978) FLC 90-410 Robinson and Willis (1982) FLC 91-215 APPLICANT: Ms Salazar RESPONDENT: Mr Salazar FILENUMBER: SYC 4458 of 2013 DATE DELIVERED: 15 October 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Parramatta PLACE HEARD: Sydney JUDGMENT OF: Hannam J HEARING DATE: 9 September 2014 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: Ms Eldershaw SOLICITOR FOR THE APPLICANT: Newnhams Solicitors RESPONDENT  SELF-REPRESENTED: Mr Salazar ORDERS (1) Therespondent husband pay to the applicant wife by way of spousal maintenance thesum of $750 per week from the date of completionof sale of the family homepursuant to the orders made on 25 June 2014, pending furtherorder. It is ordered by CONSENT: (2) The husband be restrained from doing or allowing to be done any act or thingto prevent the wife from having sole use and enjoymentof the 2004 BMW ...registration number ..., pending further order. IT ISNOTED that publication of this judgment by this Court under the pseudonymSalazar & Salazar has been approved by the Chief Justice pursuant tos 121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT PARRAMATTA FILE NUMBER:SYC 4458 of 2013 Ms Salazar Applicant And Mr Salazar Respondent REASONS FOR JUDGMENT INTRODUCTION Inan application in a case Ms Salazar (the wife) seeks interimmaintenance from her former husband Mr Salazar (thehusband). Theparties commenced living together in December 2002 and married in the samemonth. They separated on a final basis in October 2012and were divorced inJanuary 2014. Thereare two children of the marriage, M who is ten and Z who is eight, (thechildren). Parenting orders for the childrenwere made by consent inAugust 2014. Thewifes position is that upon the completion of the sale of the familyhome, which is due to occur soon, she will not beable to afford housing forherself and the children, pending the finalisation of the substantive propertyproceedings, which havenot yet been fixed for hearing. She says that her incomeis less than her reasonable expenses. The husband says that the sum thewifeseeks is beyond his capacity to pay and that her expenses are not reasonable. Heseeks that the application be dismissed. Thequestion for me to determine is whether it is appropriate for an order to bemade that the husband pay maintenance to his formerwife. BACKGROUND Thewife was born in 1969 and is currently 45 years of age. The husband was born in1972 and is currently 42 years of age. After aten year marriage the partiesseparated in October 2012. The children continued living with their mother andspend time with theirfather five days per fortnight. Whenthe parties separated in October 2012, the husband moved out of the family homeand started living with his brother at a unitin Suburb B which is owned by hisparents. In August 2013 the brother moved out of the unit to give the husbandand the children(when they visited) more room. Thehusband continues to live in this property and pays his parents $500 per week byway of rent. The husband asserts that the marketvalue rent is closer to $1000per week for this property. InJanuary 2013, the wife and children moved into a rental property at Suburb C.The rent was $1200 per week. The husband agreed topay the wifes rentalaccommodation expenses, including payment of the bond, for one year. Theparties signed the joint lease in January 2013 for one year. During this yearthe former family home was leased for $1100 perweek to neighbours who wererenovating their home. The plan was to sell the home and then to finalise theproperty settlement, anddivorce proceedings between the parties. During2013, the husband was depositing his income into the parties jointaccount to cover the mortgage over the family home.The rent earned on thefamily home was also paid into this joint account. The rent for the wife andchildrens accommodationalso came out of this joint account. Thehusband ceased making mortgage payments in January 2014, and accumulated arrearsof $30 000. He later repaid this amount utilisinga loan for this amount fromhis parents. Thewife and the children moved back to the family home in February 2014, upon theexpiry of both leases. On25 June 2014 orders were made by consent in relation to the sale of the familyhome. Under those orders, $10 000 is to be paidfrom the proceeds of sale to thewife as lump sum interim spousal maintenance. Thehome was due to be sold at Auction in September 2014, with an expectedcompletion date in early November 2014. Theparties eldest child M who is ten started at a private school in 2012,when he was in year three. The husband has beenpaying and continues to pay thechilds private school fees. The wife is content for M to attend at alocal public school atthe beginning of the school year in 2015, when he is inyear six. This will reduce the parties discretionary spending, and make afurther $400 per week available to the husband. Theparties daughter, Z, who is aged eight, attends a local public school. Thewife has received child support from the husband of $433 per week since October2013. Thewife works part time as a customer service officer and the husband isprofessionally employed. Thewife works approximately 48 hours per fortnight. This work is completed in asingle period, once per fortnight on alternate weekends,Friday to Monday, at atime when the children are in the care of the husband. Thehusband currently works four days per week, and does not work on a Friday. Hedoes this so he can spend extra time with the childrenon Thursday evenings andFridays. THE LAW TheCourt must consider the spousal maintenance claim in accordance with theassessment process identified by the Full Court In the Marriage ofBevan[1] whichrequires: A threshold finding under s 72 Aconsideration of the factors in ss74 and 75(2) Nofettering principle is to apply so that any pre-separation standard of livingmust not automatically be awarded where the respondentsmeans permit;and TheCourt to exercise its discretion in accordance with provisions of s 74 withreasonableness in the circumstances as the guidingprinciple Section72 of The Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) (the Act) provides asfollows: (1) A partyto a marriageis liable to maintain the other party,to the extent that the first-mentioned partyis reasonably ableto do so, if, and only if, that other partyis unable to support herself or himself adequately whether: (a) by reason of having the care and control of a childof the marriagewho has not attained the age of 18 years; (b) by reason of age or physical or mental incapacity for appropriate gainfulemployment; or (c) for any other adequate reason; having regard to any relevant matter referred to in subsection75(2). Itis not in issue that the wife has the care and control of children who are underthe age of 18. The questions in issue are whetherthe wife is unable to supportherself adequately and whether the husband is reasonably able to paymaintenance. Thetest of ability to support ones self in s 72(1) was interpreted inEliades and Eliades[2]as: [N]ot identical to the test of whether one is in need but meanswhether the applicant is in a position to finance himself or herselffrom his orher own resources. That is to say, the test is whether by reason of earningcapacity, by reason of capital or other sourcesof income which have accruedindependently to the applicant, the applicant is in a position to look afterherself ... Therecipient of maintenance is entitled to be maintained adequately.The word adequately was interpretedby Lindenmayer J in Nuttingand Nutting[3] as: Astandard of living which is reasonable in the circumstances, including thecircumstance that the parties are no longer husband andwife and that the assetsand resources which were formerly available to them both in common have now beendivided between them. TheFull Court agreed with this interpretation in In the Marriage ofBevan (supra). The Full Court also said that a court is not bound by aprinciple that an applicant is entitled to the same standard ofliving as wasenjoyed prior to separation whenever the respondent is able to pay. Therespondents capacity to pay is considered on income, property, financialresources and earning capacity. Capacity to payis assessed by determining therespondents surplus after paying their necessarycommitments. InCurnow[4] Ellis Jsaid: In my judgment, a party is only liable to maintain the otherparty to the extent that the first-mentioned party is reasonably ableto do so.In determining whether a party is reasonably able to support or contribute tothe support of another party, one shouldhave regard to the income of thefirst-mentioned party and then the unavoidable, non-discretionary expenses ofthat party, includinghis or her reasonable living expenses. After thatexercise, one can consider the amount, if any, from which the first party may beable to contribute to the maintenance of the other party. Section74(1) further provides that in proceedings with respect to maintenance the courtmay make such order as it considers proper.The meaning ofproper was considered in Robinson andWillis[5] where Asche SJsaid: An order which is either insufficient or excessive in the circumstances, is notproper. In the former case becausethe burden of support may bethrown on the public; in the latter because an excessive order will result ininability to pay the accumulationof impossible arrears and, again, ultimately aprobably recourse to the public purse. TheFull Court in Brown andBrown[6] considered the meaning ofproper and adequate, at paragraph 91-2,94-95: Similarly, we think that what is meant byproper in s 74 is circumscribed by the provisions of the Actrelating to maintenance. Adequacy is the key concept in determining whether thethresholdset by s 72 has been crossed. But that concept is not left behind oncethe step into s 74 enquiry as to what is proper is taken. Thoughapplication of the factors set out in s 75(2) may, in a given case, lead to agenerous interpretation of needs that are adequate and of what isproper,the nexus between adequate andproper must remain. As Ache J said in Robinson and Willis (1982) FLC 91-215: An order which is either insufficient or excessive in thecircumstances is not proper... The choice of the form of maintenance here involved in the identification andweighting of factors militating againstor favouring one form orthe other. Weight could only be expressed in qualitative terms, such asimportant or serious. In contrast, in the calculation of a specific sum, the opportunity wasavailable to disclose the weight given to relevant factorsin a quantitativemanner by the attribution of a monetary amount. A failure to do so is likely tomake demonstration of the nexusbetween the award and adequacy orappropriate in the circumstances more difficult to identify. MullaneJ in N & N[7] statedthat: [T]he interpretation of the expression unable tosupport herself or himself adequately is subject to the wordshavingregard to any relevant matter referred to in subsection 75(2). Section 75(2) Factors Age and state of health of each ofthe parties Thewife is 45 years of age and the husband is 42 years of age. Both are, so far asI am aware, in good health. Income, property and financial resources of each of theparties and the physical and mental capacity of each of them for appropriategainful employment Thewife is reliant on her income as a part time customer service officer and theincome she receives by way of child support fromthe husband. Her net income is$943 per week and her weekly expenditure is $463 in respect of herself and $786in respect of thechildren, a total of $1249 excluding accommodation. If anamount for holidays, being discretionary spending of $60 per week is notincluded, her expenses exceed her income by $246 per week. The wife states inher updated financial statement, filed on 29 August2014 that her parents havelent her money to pay her legal expenses and car expenses. Thework arrangements for the wife were agreed between the parties when they weremarried. The final parenting orders of 11 August2014 were made in this contextand in practice mean that the wife works when the children are spending timewith their father. Thehusband is professionally employed and is on a net weekly income of $2395 and hereceives further financial benefits from hisemployer which are notparticularised and which he values at $326 per week. Thehusband also has occasional employment with a government agency, but says he isnot currently earning an income from this source,although there is no evidencethat this is the case. I accept the wifes contention that thehusbands parents shouldbe considered a financial resource of thehusband, as they have provided money to pay the mortgage arrears and in effectsubsidisethe husbands rent by charging considerably less than marketrent. Thehusband now works four days per week. It was submitted on behalf of the wifethat if he recommenced working five days per week,his income would increase bya further 20 per cent. The husband says that his salary has not been reduced andhe maintains the samehours within four days a week. The husband was paying themortgage on the family home but ceased doing so in January 2014. He hassincepaid the arrears by way of a loan from his parents, and has recommenced payingthe mortgage. It can be assumed that the husbandentered the agreement to paythe mortgage in good faith and has an ability to meet the repayments. Themortgage repayments will nolonger be payable when the house is sold and themortgage is paid out and the sum the wife seeks is less than the mortgagerepayments. Whether either party has the care or control of a child ofthe marriage who has not attained the age of 18 years Thewife has the principle care and control of the children of the marriage who areunder the age of 18. The children live with hernine days per fortnight and thisarrangement will continue under the parenting orders. Where the parties have separated or divorced, a standard ofliving that in all the circumstances is reasonable Whenthe sale of the family home is complete, the wife and the children will need tofind new accommodation. The wife wishes to maintainliving in the same area, butconcedes that she may need to move further out to find cheaper accommodation.The wife provides evidencefrom real estate searches that three bedroom homes orapartments in the suburb which she currently lives would be about $1000 perweekrent. The wife provides evidence of three bedroom homes and apartments insurrounding cheaper suburbs for rent between $750and $1000. Thehusband argues that this application for spousal maintenance is premature. Hesays that the wife has already received $5000 andwill receive $10 000 upon thesale of the family home. He contends that upon the completion of the sale of thefamily home that thewife will receive about $400 000. Iaccept the wifes submission that it is appropriate for the Court to makean order relating to the husbands capacityto pay from his income ratherthan his capital. An order that the husband pay from his income would preserveboth the capital thateach will ultimately receive at the finalisation of thesubstantive proceedings. DISCUSSION Sinceseparation the wife has had the primary care and control of two primary schoolaged children. She entered into arrangementsconcerning her employment when shewas married and the parenting orders were made in that context. Thewife works two days each fortnight while the children are in the care of theirfather. The wifes evidence, which I accept,is that she has tried toobtain additional employment as a customer service officer but has been unableto secure it. Although thisis the employment for which she is trained, thereseems no reason why she cannot gain some other employment especially duringschoolhours or at some other time while the children are in the fatherscare. The wife is clearly well educated and in good healthand it seems has acapacity for further employment. Thewife clearly has a need to house herself and the children at a reasonablestandard. The accommodation that she has in mind appearsto be of a highstandard similar to that which she enjoyed during the marriage. The wife hasconceded that it would be possible forher to lease a property in an adjoiningsuburb and having regard to this concession, and the principle that the court isnot fetteredby pre-separation standards of living, the reasonable expenses forher accommodation appear to be in the order of around $750, ratherthan$1000. Thehusband earns a significant salary and other benefits are available to him, inpart due to the generosity of his parents. Althoughhis weekly expenditureexceeds his income by $400 per week according to his financial statement, thereare in my view a number ofexpenses which could not be regarded as unavoidableor non-discretionary such as holidays, Foxtel and of particular significance,the payment of private school fees of $420 per week. When discretionary spendingand non-particularised other expenses in his financialstatement are taken intoaccount, the husband has available to him at least another $700 per week. Iam of the view that the husband has a greater ability to pay maintenance than hecontends. For the reasons given I am also of theview that a sum less than whichis claimed by the wife is required to support her adequately. Having regard toconsidering the meaningof an order which is proper, I make anorder for maintenance which is somewhat less than is sought by the wife butisin my view that which the husband is reasonably able to pay. Theorders that I make are as set out at the forefront of these reasons forJudgment. I certify that the preceding forty eight (48)paragraphs are a true copy of the reasons for judgment of the Honourable JusticeHannamdelivered on 15 October 2014. Associate: Date: 13 October 2014 [1] (1995) FLC 92-600 at 81,981 to81,982, (1993) 19 FamLR 35 at 42 [2] (1981) FLC 91-022 at 76,232.Also see Clauson and Clauson (1995) FLC92-595 [3] (1978) FLC 90-410,77,094 [4] Unreported, Sydney 28April 1997 [5] (1982) FLC 91-215,77,157. [6] [2007] FamCA 151; (2007) FLC93-316 [7] (1997) FLC 92-782 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/873.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             