FAMILY LAW  CHILDABDUCTION  Return application in which requesting parent seeks return ofonly one of five siblings delay  need for a Regulation 26 report mediation under Victoria Legal Aids Hague model ofmediation APPLICANT: State Central Authority RESPONDENT: Ms Teru INTERVENOR: INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: Mr M Finn FILENUMBER: MLC 8491 of 2014 DATE DELIVERED: 10 October 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Melbourne PLACE HEARD: Melbourne JUDGMENT OF: Bennett J HEARING DATE: 10 October 2014 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: SOLICITOR FOR THEAPPLICANT: Ms Accornero Department of Human Services, LegalServices Branch COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENT: In Person SOLICITOR FOR THE RESPONDENT: COUNSELFOR THE INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: Ms Conlan SOLICITOR FOR THE INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: McKean Park ORDERS ITIS ORDERED THAT Thatthis matter be fixed for final hearing before me on Thursday 11 and Friday 12December 2014 at 10.00 am subject to part-heardcases only. Thatthe Applicant State Central Authority file and serve any further evidence uponwhich it relies by not later than 12.00 noon on24 October 2014. Untilfurther order, the respondent mother, MS TERU, by herself, her servants oragents, be hereby restrained from causing or permittingany suffering of thechild E born ... September 2005 from being assessed by a psychologist, medicalpractitioner, counsellor or likeprofessionals for the purpose of evidence inthis proceeding without the prior written consent of the applicant State CentralAuthorityand the independent childrens lawyer. Eachparty has leave to contact Registrars Riddiford or Sikiotis or my Associate email ...  to arrange to have thismatter listed for mentionbefore him/herself or before me, on notice to all other parties, to seek anyfurther directions as anyparty considers are necessary to ensure that thematter is ready for trial or to narrow the issues in dispute. Theindependent childrens lawyer forthwith attend to the followingmatters:- toassess and make recommendations to the parties and the requesting parent aboutaccess between the child E and the requesting parentpending the final hearing;and toappoint a mediation, using the Victoria Legal Aid Hague Model to be conducted on8, 9 or 10 November 2014- nothing in this Order precludesthe parents agreeing to access between the father and the children B (14), L(13) and Z (10) as wellas between the father and the child E. ITIS DIRECTED that pursuant to Regulation 26(1) of the Regulations areport be prepared in relation to the child E born ... September 2005 andinparticular the effect on the child of separation from his older siblings (aged10, 13 and 14 years) in the event that he is orderedto return to New Zealandbut the mother and/or the childs older siblings remain here. Forthe purpose of the preparation of the report, a family consultant nominated bythe Director of Child Dispute Services in the MelbourneRegistry of this Courtbe available to see the child and his siblings, including the oldest sibling MsC (24), at his/ her discretion. Such report to be commenced not later than 19November 2014 and released by 5 December 2014. Themother and children comply with all reasonable directions as to attendance withthe family consultant as and when required bythe family consultant. Untilfurther order, the family consultant who prepares the r 26(1) report interviewthe respondent mother if, and only if, the requestingparent, Mr S, is affordedan equivalent opportunity to be interviewed, including being interviewed byaudio-visual medium as wellas by telephone. Theapplicant State Central Authority forthwith obtain instructions as to whetherthe requesting parent will participate in the r26(1) assessment and advise theindependent childrens lawyer, respondent and Manager of Child DisputeServices of this Registryof the Court accordingly. Subjectto any order by me to the contrary, if the requesting parent does notparticipate in the preparation of the report the respondentmother is not toparticipate either over and above being responsible for the production of thechildren for the assessment process. Paragraph5 of the Order made on 22 September 2014 apply mutatis mutandis to therequesting parent Mr S and I reserve liberty to the requesting parent to seek tovary or to set aside this Order or as hemay be advised. Anythingsaid or done during the mediation is not admissible as evidence in thisproceedings. By17 October 2014 the applicant State Central Authority ascertain whether therequesting parent is prepared to participate in a mediationor conciliation ofparenting matters generally, including the issue of forum under the 1980Convention, and any conditions on return. Therebe liberty to apply to all parties in relation to themediation. AND IT IS NOTED that the independentchildrens lawyer was appointed an hour before thehearing. AND IT IS FURTHER NOTED that the applicant StateCentral Authority informs the Court that it is alleged that the children werewrongfully removed to Australiaon 10 October 2013. IT IS NOTED that publication of this judgment by this Court underthe pseudonym State Central Authority & Teru has been approved bythe Chief Justice pursuant to s 121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act 1975(Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT MELBOURNE FILE NUMBER:MLC 8491 of 2014 State CentralAuthority Applicant And Ms Teru Respondent And Independent ChildrensLawyer REASONS FOR JUDGMENT EX TEMPORE Thesereasons for decision relate to the delay in this matter because, as acontracting state under the 1980 Convention and the countrywith which we havethe most abduction cases, New Zealand has expressed concern about delay indealing with matters. It does seemto me that this matter has unfortunately beendelayed. RECORDED : NOT TRANSCRIBED Inthis matter, the State Central Authority seeks the return of E (thechild), to New Zealand pursuant to the Family Law (ChildAbductionConvention) Regulations 1989. Today is the third hearing date allocated to theapplication which was filed on 19 September2014. The mother attended courtthis morning alone and has had the benefit of representation by the duty lawyer.Ms Accornereo,solicitor, appears on behalf of the State Central Authority. MrFinn, solicitor, was appointed independent childrens lawyersome timewithin the last hour, and Ms Conlon of counsel appears on his behalf. Theapplication of the State Central Authority seeks the return of only one of fourchildren of the relationship between the respondentmother and the requestingparent who is Mr S. Thechilds siblings are his ten year old brother, his 13 year old brother and14 year old sister. And there is the childrensolder sister, Ms C, whois aged 24 years and who has attended court with her mother. Ms C appears adeptat communicating. Iam somewhat concerned about the delay in this matter. The earliest final hearingthat I can allocate to it is the 11 December 2014when it may well displaceanother matter which has been listed for some time. Fromthe day upon which the matter first came before the Court, on 22 September 2014,it was apparent that the application, if granted,would have the effect ofseparating the child from his four siblings in Australia. This gives rise to aconsideration of the emotionalimpact on him of that separation and whether itwill constitute a grave risk of emotional harm within the meaning of theregulationsand, thereby, provide the Court with discretion to refuse return. Thismatter was allocated to me last week. Today was the first date upon which itcould be listed before me, having regard to thenecessity to obtain an Ethiopianinterpreter for the mother. The interpreter has attended court today. She isaccredited as a level2 NAATI interpreter and they are conversing in Amharic. Aregulation 26 report is necessary and will be prepared. It is unable to beallocated prior to mid-November 2014 but I am assuredby Child Dispute Servicesthat it will be released by 5 December 2014. Theindependent childrens lawyer which was requested on the second returndate of this matter on 29 September 2014 is now knownto be Mr Finn. But, asindicated, he has only known of the matter in the last hour or so. The taskswhich I require him to fulfil,apart from his general duties, are to investigatewhat access is feasible between the child and the requesting parent. And Iwouldnot be surprised if that also involves the other children of therelationship. I note that the requesting parent has twice beento Australiasince the children have been here but has not seen them on either occasion. Accordingly, the access to be consideredwill be electronic access as well asface-to-face access and I would expect that Mr Finn will be in contact with therequesting parentsooner rather than later. In the meantime, the restriction onthe mother removing the child from Australia until these proceedingsareconcluded should be extended to the requesting parent. Inthe event that any orders or directions are necessary to facilitate access thenthe parties have liberty to apply to bring thismatter back before me and itshould be listed without delay. Thenext matter which the independent childrens lawyer is required toinvestigate is the possibility of a structured Haguemediation in the modelprovided by Victoria Legal Aid. I request that he attend to this as soon aspossible because a mediationcannot delay an eventual court determination. Thatsaid, the mediation should follow the release of the regulation 26 report. Soit seems to me that the small window of opportunity for the parents to mediatewith the assistance of the independent childrenslawyer will be 8, 9 and10 of December 2014. Thepurpose of the mediation is not merely to see if the matter can be resolved inits entirety but to have the parents prepare foroutcomes. They are theoutcomes which they do want and which they do not want. At the end of theseproceedings, the child will eitherremain in Australia with his siblings, inwhich case the father will want to have some form of ongoing time with them, oralternativelythe child will go back to New Zealand and the mother will beseeking either to pursue litigation in New Zealand or seek some formof timewith the child. That is what I mean about preparing for outcomes. A mediation,as conducted by Victoria Legal Aid, willafford the parents an opportunity toresolve any matter that can be resolved and to consider how each will be placedwhen these proceedings,if contested, conclude. Theapplicant State Central Authority did not oppose the concept of mediationalthough it is not expected that it will participate. RECORDED : NOT TRANSCRIBED Theindependent childrens lawyer should not hesitate to have the matterlisted before me for further directions if he thinksthat further directionswould help. I certify that the preceding fourteen (14)paragraphs are a true copy of the reasons for judgment of the Honourable JusticeBennettdelivered on 10 October 2014. Associate: Date: 28 October 2014 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/919.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      