FAMILY LAW  CHILDREN  With whom achild lives  Relocation Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) APPLICANT: Ms Peakridge RESPONDENT: Mr Martin INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: Harris Lieberman FILENUMBER: AYC 77 of 2007 DATE DELIVERED: 28 November 2007 PLACE DELIVERED: Albury PLACE HEARD: Albury JUDGMENT OF: Justice Cronin HEARING DATE: 19, 27 November 2007 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: Mr O'Shannessy SOLICITOR FOR THE APPLICANT: Nevin Lenne & Gross COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENT: In person SOLICITOR FOR THE RESPONDENT: COUNSELFOR THE INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: MsBoyle SOLICITOR FOR THE INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: Harris Lieberman ORDERS Thatthe Independent Childrens Lawyer have leave to file an affidavit bySunita Rama sworn 27 November 2007. Thatthe applicant and the respondent have equal shared parental responsibility forthe child of their relationship J born ... May1999. Thatthe children, J born ... May 1999 and M born ... May 1996 live with themother. Thatthe mother be permitted to relocate the children from North East Victoria toCanberra forthwith. Thatthe mother advise the father seven (7) days prior to any proposed visit by herto north eastern Victoria and by agreement, deliverthe children to and collectthem from, the father for the children to spend time with him for as long aspracticable. Thatthe father and the mother make arrangements for the children to spend time withthe father and for the purposes of such time,the father collect the childrenfrom the mothers home at the beginning of any agreed time and the mothercollect the childrenfrom the fathers home at the conclusion of anyagreed time. Thatthe father communicate with the children by telephone or email at any reasonabletime. Thatthe mother keep the father advised of the following: (a) any medicalemergency or serious ill health of either of the children and the name of anytreating doctor; (b) her addressand telephone contact number and email address; (c) any socialevent at the childrens school; and (d) schoolreports. Thatthe mother advise the father in writing 28 days prior to any proposed move byher from the City of Canberra. Thatthe mother be restrained by injunction from doing any of thefollowing: (a) allowingthe children or either of them to come into contact with Mr JD; (b) allowingthe children or either of them to come into contact with CD; (c) allowingthe children or either of them to come into contact with SD; and (d) allowingthe children or either of them to come into contact with RD. Thatall applications be otherwise dismissed and all proceedings be removed from thelist of cases awaiting a hearing. IT IS CERTIFIED: Thatpursuant to Order 19.50 of the Family Law Rules 2004 it was reasonable to engagecounsel to attend. Thatpursuant to s.65DA(2) and s.62B, the particulars of the obligations these orderscreate and the particulars of the consequencesthat may follow if a personcontravenes these orders and details of who can assist parties adjust to andcomply with an order areset out in the Fact Sheet attached hereto and theseparticulars are included in these orders. Thata copy of these orders and the reasons for judgment be served by the IndependentChildrens Lawyer upon the father by ordinarypre-paid post. Thatthe Independent Childrens Lawyer be forthwith discharged from theproceedings. Thatany exhibit in the proceedings be returned to the person providing thatexhibit. IT IS NOTED that publication of this judgment under thepseudonym Peakridge & Martin is approved pursuant to s 121(9)(g) ofthe Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT ALBURY FILE NUMBER: AYC77 of 2007 MS PEAKRIDGE Applicant MR MARTIN Respondent And INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER REASONS FOR JUDGMENT Theseare proceedings between the parties for parenting orders. Thecase was listed before me in the Albury Circuit in August but not determined. It was then adjourned to this circuit. Atthe last circuit, the father was represented. He ceased to be represented by alawyer at the end of October. Thefather participated in the callover of the case and I fixed the hearing forTuesday 27 November 2007. Atthe beginning of the day, the father attended and I indicated to him that Iwould deal with his case as soon as I practically couldbut with a circuitrolling list, he would have to wait a while. Bylunch time, I was advised that there were discussions going on between thefather and the Independent Childrens Lawyer. By2.15pm, I was advised that the father had left the Court and there was aprobability that he would not return. Iasked that the Independent Childrens Lawyer contact him to urge him toparticipate but if it was his wish not to do so, Iwould determine the matter inhis absence. MsRama who is the Independent Childrens Lawyer filed an affidavit at theend of the day setting out her discussions with thefather and of leavingmessages for him. It transpires that the father telephoned Ms Rama at about4.30pm and I had her give evidenceabout that conversation. The affidavit andthe oral evidence indicate that the father intended not to participate nor wouldhe begoing to Canberra to presumably see the children. Thesame message was reiterated in the late telephone call. Thefather has therefore had plenty of opportunity to participate but has chosen notto do so. That does not mean that I can ignorehis evidence but it does affectthe weight that I give it. Iam satisfied that it is appropriate to proceed in the absence of thefather. Theissue which really precipitated the proceedings is the application of the motherto relocate the children to reside in Canberra. THE CHILDREN Thechildren are M born in May 1996 and therefore 11 years of age and J born in May1999 and therefore eight years of age. Throughoutthe proceedings and in thesereasons for judgment, the children are referred to as J and M. Mis not the fathers biological child but has treated him as such since hewas 18 months old. M has no relationship with hisbiological father. Thefather said that M treated him as his father. Byway of background, the mother is 47 and the father 45. The parties livedtogether from April 1999 until February 2004. The motheris a therapist and thefather a builder. Throughoutthe relationship, the evidence seems to establish that the mother was thepredominant parent. Therelationship between the parties was not a happy one. There are allegations ofabuse and violence exacerbated by alcohol abuse. The best the father could doin response to these assertions was say that he did not admit them. Save forthe issue of the presumption,the establishment of these matters becomesirrelevant now that the father has chosen not to participate. Afterseparation, there was occasional time spent between father and children. Thefather suggested that he and the mother were ableto work out by agreement howthe time between he and the children would be spent. That seems consistent withthe mothersacceptance that from Canberra, she will work out somesuitable arrangements with the father if he showsinterest. THE INITIAL PROPOSAL OF THE MOTHER Themother proposed by application that she be permitted to relocate the children toCanberra and that thereafter, the children spendhalf of the ACT school holidayswith the father along with a weekend in the middle of term. The mother madesuggestions for othertimes such as Christmas Day and the fathersbirthday. THE PROCEEDINGS Thefather did not participate in the hearings on 21 March 2007 and 16 April 2007. At the latter hearing, the Registrar ordered theappointment of the IndependentChildrens Lawyer. Thefather did not attend the mediation appointment in March. Orderswere made for a family report to be prepared and the father participated inthat. I shall deal with that report in a moment. By2 August 2008, the father, who attended a hearing but had not filed any materialwas ordered by the Registrar to do so. The filerecord shows that the relocationissue was very much a matter of contention. On16 August 2007, the father filed his affidavit of evidence. More importantly,he filed his formal response document seeking thatboth children live with him. For reasons best known to him and probably out of an abundance of caution, thefather sought an injunctionagainst the mother relocating the children away fromnorth east Victoria. Beforeme on 29 August 2007 at which time as I have said, the father was represented,all parties consented to orders providing forinterim parenting orders whichinter alia gave them time with the father each alternate weekend and eachWednesday overnight intothe Thursday morning. I made distinct injunctionsagainst the mother bringing the children into contact with Mr JD, CD, SD and RD.There was also an injunction relating to the maternal grandfather. Iwas told that the orders were not carried out for long because the father had towork away from north east Victoria and for thelast few weeks, the children havenot seen him. THE FATHERS PROPOSAL Thefather set out his position in his affidavit filed 16 August 2007. Thatdocument was a response to the mothers affidavit. Hesaid that he and his partner of 18 months Ms F, had bought a house and the boysgot along well with her. He set out all of thethings they did together. Heexpressed concern that if the children went to Canberra, his relationship withthem would be compromised. Surprisingly,there was little positive evidence about how he proposed to care for thechildren. His last paragraph really set thescene though when he said that hewould seek that the children live with him if the mother continuedher relationshipwith Mr JD. THE POSITON OF THE INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER TheIndependent Childrens Lawyer supported the mothersposition. OVERVIEW Itis quite clear from the evidence to which I shall refer that the mother is quitecapable of providing adequate physical care forthe children. There is no issueof any consequence relating to accommodation and other arrangements that she canoffer the children. My dilemma is that I had before and have now, very littleinformation from the father to assist me. In substance, my task is toconsiderwhich of the two proposals will most likely promote the welfare of these twoboys. THE MOTHERS EVIDENCE Themother filed an affidavit on 22 October 2007. Themother set out the issues of violence. Shewent on to say that she had no family in north east Victoria but all of herclose family was in Canberra. She deposed to thefact that there wereopportunities for her in Canberra that were not available in north eastVictoria. Shethought that the relationship between the father and the children was good andwould withstand the move to Canberra. Heraffidavit is comprehensive about the structure of her proposed life inCanberra. Asfor the fathers concern about Mr JD, the mother deposed in her recentaffidavit that the relationship had ended althoughthey remained friends. Theissue surrounding this man relates more to his children who were involved insome pornographic video viewing. I am not entirely sure what it is that causesthe father angst now about Mr JD. THE FAMILY REPORT Thefamily report was prepared by Family Consultant Ms H. Ina comprehensive summary, Ms H set out the competing positions as she was giventhem in May 2007. MsH said that the father had not displayed strong motivation to spend substantialtime with the children, was not highly involvedand committed to theresponsibilities of parenting. J felt hurt and disappointed. MsH was complimentary of the mothers approach to the relationship betweenfather and children. Theissue of relocation was a matter left to the Court. The report writer raisedall of the concerns about risks and also all ofthe benefits for the children. Asuggestion was made that the mother undergo some therapeutic counselling with aspecialist sexualassault program relating to her own past on the basis thatthat may assist her in setting some protective boundaries for the children. Ido not have the fathers die of all of this and the IndependentChildrens Lawyer was supporting the mother and themother has agreed tosome three injunctions. THE IMPACT OF THE MOVE TO CANBERRA UPON THE CHILDREN. Themothers evidence is that the children will settle and that they will havesupport. To some extent, I feel that a moveaway from the environment of northeast Victoria may be a good thing for these children having regard to thebehavioural problemsthat I was told about in August at the local schoolconcerning the D children. thedifficulty is that I have very little evidence from the father and he has chosenfirst not to avail himself of the time in thelast orders I made and secondly,he left the Court for reasons best known to himself and has chosen not toparticipate. Ican only determine the matter on the evidence. DISCUSSION Relocationcases are parenting cases. Subsequent of 1 July 2006, the legislative pathwayhas been set out in Part VII of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth)(the Act). BecauseI intend to make parenting orders regardless of the fact that these orders are avariation of existing parenting orders, s 61DA requires that I apply apresumption that it is in the childrens best interests for their parentsto have equal shared parentalresponsibility. This exercise needs to beundertaken before the determination of any parenting order. Section61DA provides: (1) When making a parenting order in relation to achild, the court must apply a presumption that it is in the best interests ofthechild for the childs parents to have equal shared parentalresponsibility for the child. Section61DA(2) provides that the presumption does not apply if there are reasonablegrounds to believe that a parent of the child has engaged inabuse of the childor family violence. The definition of family violence is set out in s 4 of theAct. I am satisfied in this case that the presumption is rebutted by virtue ofs 61DA(2). The mother has made serious allegations and although not admitted(as distinct from denied) by the father, he has chosen not tochallenge themother in the proceedings. I am entitled to accept the truth of what shesaid. Ido not therefore have to contemplate equal shared parental responsibility. Section61DA(4) however also says that the presumption may be rebutted if I am satisfiedthat it would not be in the childrens interests forit to be applied. Incircumstances where the father puts forward no positive material having appliedfor the children to live withhim and then having opposed a move of the childrenin circumstances where he has not availed himself of the opportunity to spendquality time with them, it is clear that normally I would not have to considerequal shared parental responsibility. Both the IndependentChildrensLawyer and the mother sought orders that notwithstanding all of that, theparties have equal shared parental responsibility. The rebuttal of thepresumption does not mean that a court has to make an order that the partiescannot have that shared responsibility. Thepresumption is a pathway to assist in the determination of time between parentsand children. I am satisfied for that pathwayto say that it is appropriate andin the best interests of the children to rebut the presumption. I do so alsounder s 61DA(4). PARENTING ORDERS Asto what parenting order I should then make, it is important to look firstly atthe objects and principles of Part VII of the Act. Theobjects and principles from which the provisions of Part VII are to be appliedare set out in s 60B, which provides: (1) The objects of this Partare to ensure that the best interests of children are met by: (a) ensuring that children have the benefit of both of their parents havinga meaningful involvement in their lives, to the maximumextent consistent withthe best interests of the child; and (b) protecting children from physical or psychological harm from beingsubjected to, or exposed to, abuse, neglect or family violence;and (c) ensuring that children receive adequate and proper parenting to helpthem achieve their full potential; and (d) ensuring that parents fulfil their duties, and meet theirresponsibilities, concerning the care, welfare and development of theirchildren. (2) The principles underlying these objects are that (except when it is orwould be contrary to a childs best interests): (a) children have the right to know and be cared for by both their parents,regardless of whether their parents are married, separated,have never marriedor have never lived together; and (b) children have a right to spend time on a regular basis with, andcommunicate on a regular basis with, both their parents andother peoplesignificant to their care, welfare and development (such as grandparents andother relatives); and (c) parents jointly share duties and responsibilities concerning the care,welfare and development of their children; and (d) parents should agree about the future parenting of their children;and (e) children have a right to enjoy their culture (including the right toenjoy that culture with other people who share that culture).Section60B alsomakes provision for an Aboriginal child or Torrens Strait Islander child beingable to enjoy their culture but in this case,that provision does not apply. THE BEST INTERESTS PRINCIPLE Section60CA is fundamental. It says: In deciding whether to make aparticular parenting order in relation to a child, a court must regard the bestinterests of the childas the paramount consideration. Indetermining what is in a childs best interests, s 60CC provides that theCourt must consider the following matters in determining what is in thechilds best interests: Primary considerations (2) The primary considerations are: (a) the benefit to the child of having a meaningful relationship with bothof the childs parents; and (b) the need to protect the child from physical or psychological harm frombeing subjected to, or exposed to, abuse, neglect or familyviolence. Additional considerations (3) Additional considerations are: (a) any views expressed by the child and any factors (such as thechilds maturity or level of understanding) that the courtthinks arerelevant to the weight it should give to the childs views; (b) the nature of the relationship of the child with: (i) each of the childs parents; and (ii) other persons (including any grandparent or other relative of thechild); (c) the willingness and ability of each of the childs parents tofacilitate, and encourage, a close and continuing relationshipbetween the childand the other parent; (d) the likely effect of any changes in the childs circumstances,including the likely effect on the child of any separationfrom: (i) either of his or her parents; or (ii) any other child, or other person (including any grandparent or otherrelative of the child), with whom he or she has been living; (e) the practical difficulty and expense of a child spending time with andcommunicating with a parent and whether that difficultyor expense willsubstantially affect the childs right to maintain personal relations anddirect contact with both parentson a regular basis; (f) the capacity of: (i) each of the childs parents; and (ii) any other person (including any grandparent or other relative of thechild); to provide for the needs of the child, including emotional and intellectualneeds; (g) the maturity, sex, lifestyle and background (including lifestyle,culture and traditions) of the child and of either of the childsparents,and any other characteristics of the child that the court thinks arerelevant; (h) if the child is an Aboriginal child or a Torres Strait Islanderchild: (i) the childs right to enjoy his or her Aboriginal or Torres StraitIslander culture (including the right to enjoy thatculture with other peoplewho share that culture); and (ii) the likely impact any proposed parenting order under this Part willhave on that right; (i) the attitude to the child, and to the responsibilities of parenthood,demonstrated by each of the childs parents; (j) any family violence involving the child or a member of thechilds family; (k) any family violence order that applies to the child or a member of thechilds family, if: (i) the order is a final order; or (ii) the making of the order was contested by a person; (l) whether it would be preferable to make the order that would be leastlikely to lead to the institution of further proceedingsin relation to thechild; (m) any other fact or circumstance that the court thinks is relevant. Section60CC(4) provides: Without limiting paragraphs (3)(c) and (i), thecourt must consider the extent to which each of the childs parents hasfulfilled,or failed to fulfil, his or her responsibilities as a parent and, inparticular, the extent to which each of the childs parents: (a) has taken, or failed to take, the opportunity: (i) to participate in making decisions about major long-term issues inrelation to the child; and (ii) to spend time with the child; and (iii) to communicate with the child;and (b) has facilitated, or failed to facilitate, the other parent: (i) participating in making decisions about major long-term issues inrelation to the child; and (ii) spending time with the child; and (iii) communicating with the child; and (c) has fulfilled, or failed to fulfil, the parents obligation tomaintain the child. Section60CC(4A) provides: If the childs parents have separated, thecourt must, in applying subsection (4), have regard, in particular, to eventsthathave happened, and circumstances that have existed, since the separationoccurred. TheCourt is exhorted to ensure the bests interests of the children are met byensuring that the children have the benefit of theirparents having a meaningfulinvolvement in their lives and s 60CA requires the Court to regard thebest interests of the children as paramount. In determining what is in the bestinterests of thechildren, the Court is obliged to turn to s 60CC. It is aprimary consideration for the children to have the benefit of a meaningfulrelationship with the parents. I cannot force the father to participate inthe proceedings any more than I can force him to be a responsibleparent. Ihave presumed that he does not want to have a meaningful relationship with thechildren and in any event, I am satisfiedthat should he now wish to do so, themother would facilitate that. Theimpact of a relocation means that the father will not be able to exert influenceand direct the childrens development butto date, I have doubts as towhether he seriously wanted to fulfil that role. AsProfessor PatrickParkinson[1]said: ...courts cannot by order create meaningful relationshipsbetween parents and children; they can only create or maintain the circumstancesthat make meaningful relationships possible. Inmy view, the future of any relationship between father and children is now inthe hands of the father. SECTION 60CC FACTORS Ido not believe that the mother would do anything deliberately to thwart therelationship between the father and the children. Thatis not to say that therelationship between the parents could not be improved with the obvious benefitfor the children. Unfortunately,I do not have the fathers side of allof that. Ihave taken little account of the views of the children in this case because oftheir age. Their views can carry little weight. Ihave considered the nature of the relationship of each of the parents with thechildren and can only say that I am satisfied thatthe mother has a goodrelationship and the father has one which whilst the children seem to showexcitement, the father shows ambivalence. Section60CC requires a consideration of the willingness and ability of each of theparents to facilitate and encourage a close and continuingrelationship betweenthe children and the other parent. I accept that the mother has facilitated andwill in the future facilitatethe relationship between the children and thefather if he decides to participate. Ihave considered the effect on the children of separation from the father but Idetect that they have become accustomed to that. Ihave considered the question of the practical difficulty and expense of thechildren spending time with the father and note thatthe mother has set out allof the methods by which an arrangement between father and children could beimplemented. The father hasagain shown little interest. Asignificant feature of s 60CC(3)(f) relates to the capacity of the parents toprovide for the needs of the children including emotional and intellectualneeds. I amsatisfied that the mother has done the tasks well up until now andI see no reason for that to change in the future. Thequestions of the maturity, sex, lifestyle and background together with thecultural issues in this case are of no moment. Anothersignificant feature however of s 60CC relates to the attitude of the parentstowards the children as well as to their responsibilities of parenthood as theyhave demonstratedthose things. The fathers attitude is now clear. Inrelation to the wifes attitude, I accept that she has shown a responsibleattitude to parenthood. She has attended to allof the needs of thechildren. Theissue of family violence and family violence orders in this case is set outabove and I shall not repeat the matters. I do notaccept the fathersprotestations under the cover that mattes are not admitted. Iam also obliged to consider whether it would be preferable to make an order thatwould be least likely to lead to further proceedings. For the sake of thechildren being able to settle quickly and organise their lives with particularemphasis on a new school year,it is important to put this matter to anend. Iam also obliged under Part VII of the Act to consider what the parents have donesubsequent to separation. I do not propose to say more than that I am satisfiedthat the mother has facilitated the relationship between the father and thechildren but the father has not been diligent in thatarea. Ipropose therefore to make orders which I think are in the best interests of thechildren. I certify that the preceding Seventy Eight (78)paragraphs are a true copy of the reasons for judgment of the Honourable JusticeCronin Associate Date: 28 November 2007 [1] Decision-makingabout the best interests of the child: The impact of the two tiers, (2006) 20AJFL 2 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2007/1389.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  