FAMILY LAW  CHILDREN Undefended hearing - With whom a child lives  With whom a childspends time  Withwhom a child communicates  Allegations of familyviolence  Husband to spend time with the children by agreement withwife FAMILY LAW  PROPERTY  Undefended hearing Application by wife for a division of property  Orders madeincircumstances where Court is satisfied that it is just and equitable Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) ss 60B, 60CC Stanford v Stanford [2012] HCA 52, (2012) 293 ALR 70 Bevan & Bevan [2013] FamCAFC 116; (2013) FLC 93-545 Chapman & Chapman [2014] FamCAFC 91 APPLICANT: Ms Kadam RESPONDENT: Mr Saxena FILENUMBER: MLC 4177 of 2014 DATE DELIVERED: 2 October 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Melbourne PLACE HEARD: Melbourne JUDGMENT OF: Benjamin J HEARING DATE: 2 October 2014 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: Ms Pandeli SOLICITOR FOR THE APPLICANT: Barbayannis Lawyers COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENT: No appearance SOLICITOR FOR THE RESPONDENT: ORDERS Hborn July 2008 and R born ... August 2010 (the children) live withthe wife. Thechildren spend time with the husband by agreement with the wife. Thewife have sole parental responsibility for the children. Thewife may apply for passports for each of the children without first obtainingthe consent of the husband. Thewife may, from time to time, take the children from Australia, for holidaysoverseas for periods not exceeding six (6) weeks inrespect of each holiday,such six (6) week limitation on overseas travel to expire in respect of eachchild as they each attain theage of thirteen (13) years. Pursuantto s 65DA(2) and s 62B, the particulars of the obligations these orders createand the particulars of the consequences that may follow if a person contravenesthese orders and details of who can assist parties adjust to and comply with anorder are set out in the Fact Sheet attached heretoand these particulars areincluded in these orders. Withinsixty (60) day of the date of these orders the husband transfer to the wife atthe expense of the wife, all of his right, titleand interest in the formermatrimonial home situate at and known as I Street, Suburb B (SuburbB). Contemporaneouslywith the transfer as referred to in paragraph 7 hereof, the wife refinance themortgage to the Commonwealth Bankof Australia which encumbers Suburb B into herown name, at her expense, and indemnify the husband in respect thereof. Thewife be entitled to the entire contents of the safety deposit box at theCommonwealth Bank of Australia, ... , Melbourne, suchsafety box being in thename of the husband and the wife. Unlessotherwise specified in these orders and save for the purposes of enforcing anymonies due under these or any subsequent orders:- 10.1 each partybe solely entitled, to the exclusion of the other party, to all property(including choses-in-action) in the nameor possession of the party; 10.2 each partyforego any claim or claims he or she may have to any superannuation benefitsbelonging to or earned by the other party; 10.3 insurancepolices and share portfolios remain the sole property of the owner namedtherein; 10.4 each partybe solely liable for and indemnify the other against any liability encumberingany item of property to which thatparty is entitled pursuant to thisagreement; 10.5 each partybe solely responsible for any liability in their own name; and 10.6 any jointtenancy of the parties in any real or personal estate is hereby expresslysevered. Paragraphs7 to 10 inclusive as stated as referred to above, be in full and finalsettlement of the wifes claim for propertysettlement and spousalmaintenance pursuant to the provisions of the Family Law Act 1975(Cth). Ifeither party refuses to sign any document required to give effect to theseorders, a Registrar of the court be appointed pursuantto Section 106A of theFamily Law Act 1975 (Cth) to execute all deeds and documents in the nameof that party and do all acts and things necessary to give validity andoperationto all such deeds and documents. IT IS DIRECTED Acopy of these orders be forwarded to the husband, by ordinary pre-paid postwithin twenty one (21) days from the date of this orderat the address set outin the most recent affidavit served with the recent amended application. Acopy of the transcript of reasons be taken out and placed on the courtfile. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED Leavebe given to the husband to apply in respect of these orders for a further periodof twenty one (21) days after the date of service,that being the date ofposting. Alloutstanding applications be dismissed. IT IS CERTIFIED Pursuantto Rule 19.50 of the Family Law Rules 2004 it was reasonable to engage counselto attend. IT IS NOTED that publication of this judgment by this Court underthe pseudonym Kadam & Saxena has been approved by the Chief Justicepursuant to s 121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT MELBOURNE FILE NUMBER:MLC 4177 of 2014 Ms Kadam Applicant And Mr Saxena Respondent REASONS FOR JUDGMENT INTRODUCTION Thisis an application by Ms Kadam (the wife) in relation to parentingand property proceedings in relation to her marriageto Mr Saxena (thehusband). The orders that the wife seeks are contained in her amendedapplication filed 8 September2014 with the exception of the costs order whichthe wife does not pursue. Thematerial upon which the wife relies is that contained in her amended applicationfiled 8 September 2014, the affidavit of a valuer,Mr C, filed 5 September 2014,an affidavit by the wife filed the same day and her financial statement filedthe same day. Inaddition, the wife gave evidence today that the material contained in herapplication was accurate. She gave evidence of contributionincluding herlarger contribution than that of her husband in terms of savings of about$10,000 at the time the parties commencedcohabitation, her role as homemakerand parent in circumstances where most of the work was left to her and verylittle of the workwas left to the husband. Thewife gave evidence that she has, despite the history of the matter, encouragedthe children to have a relationship with the husbandbut will only do so in acircumstance that is safe for the children. She has worked both as a housewife,mother and homemaker duringthe course of their marriage and has also undertakensignificant paid employment working up to some four days before the birth oftheir first child and going back to work very soon after the birth of theirsecond child. Thewife has calculated through inquiries that she has made that she has earned some$350,000 during the course of the marriage. The wife deposed in her affidavitthat the husband has sent significant amounts of money overseas to India and shebelieves thatthis money is being held there for him or held on his behalf. Sheis able to track down some $48,000 of those funds travelling overseasthrough asubpoena to Western Union but believes far greater sums have been sent overthere during the course of her marriage andare over there in his control. Iraised with the wife whether she was proposing to move to India and she said sheis quite happy to live here but wants to be ableto travel there from time totime, and I am very conscious of the provisions of the Family Law Act1975 (Cth) (the Act) which prevent her from doing so. I amgoing to give the wife permission to do so but limited to tripsof six weeks orless without the consent of the husband until each of the children attain theage of 13 years. After that time thetravel will be open to whatever decisionshe makes as having primary parental responsibility for the children. Thereis evidence in the material of family violence which I have had regard to and Iwill not repeat those other than to note itfor the purpose of the orders that Iam making. The wife does not wish to notify the husband of any proposed tripsoverseas as shehas fears, and given the circumstances, understandable fears ofher wellbeing in India if they are aware that she is over there. BACKGROUND Itis of value to look at the history of the proceedings. They were commenced on16 May of this year and there is evidence of theservice of the application andfinancial statement upon the husband. It was returnable for a case assessmentconference at thisCourt on 8 July 2014. The husband has not in any way engagedin the proceedings and has sent a letter to the wife indicating hewants noinvolvement in it and is quite happy with whatever arrangements she seeks tomake. That, of course, does not bind me. Interms of parenting, the wife seeks orders that:- (a) she hassole parental responsibility for the two children aged six and four; (b) that thechildren live with her, that she have permission to obtain a passport andimplicitly permission to travel overseas toIndia; and (c) that thechildren spend time with the husband as agreed by the wife or as otherwiseordered by a Court exercising jurisdictionunder theAct. THE LAW IN RELATION TO CHILDREN Therewas no issue that the Court had both the jurisdiction and power to makeparenting orders pursuant to the provisions of the Act. These proceedings werecommenced after the 2012 amendments commenced on 7 June 2012 and as aconsequence the amendments to the definitionof family violence ins 4(1) of the Act, and to ss 60B and 60CC that took effect on that dateapply. Whendetermining parenting orders the approach is governed by Part VII of the Act. The objects of Part VII of the Act and the principles underlying them are setout in s 60B. Subjectto the presumption of equal parenting under s 61DA and any parenting plans(there are none in this case) a court exercising jurisdiction under that Act maymake such parenting orderas it considered appropriate. Thechilds best interests are the paramount consideration in deciding whatparenting orders should be made, and in determiningthose interests the Courtmust consider the factors set out in s 60CC of the Act, which in turn providesprimary and other considerations, namely:- Primaryconsiderations (2) The primary considerations are: (a) the benefit to the child of having a meaningful relationship with bothof the child's parents; and (b) the need to protect the child from physical or psychological harm frombeing subjected to, or exposed to, abuse, neglect orfamily violence. Note: Making these considerations the primary ones is consistent with theobjects of this Part set out in paragraphs 60B(1)(a) and(b). (2A) In applying the considerations set out in subsection (2), the court isto give greater weight to the consideration set out inparagraph (2)(b). Additional considerations (3) Additional considerations are: (a) any views expressed by the child and any factors (such as the child'smaturity or level of understanding) that the court thinksare relevant to theweight it should give to the child's views; (b) the nature of the relationship of the child with: (i) each of the child's parents; and (ii) other persons (including any grandparent or other relative of thechild); (c) the extent to which each of the child's parents has taken, or failed totake, the opportunity: (i) to participate in making decisions about major long-term issues inrelation to the child; and (ii) to spend time with the child; and (iii) to communicate with the child; (ca) the extent to which each of the child's parents has fulfilled, orfailed to fulfil, the parent's obligations to maintain thechild; (d) the likely effect of any changes in the child's circumstances, includingthe likely effect on the child of any separation from: (i) either of his or her parents; or (ii) any other child, or other person (including any grandparent or otherrelative of the child), with whom he or she has been living; (e) the practical difficulty and expense of a child spending time with andcommunicating with a parent and whether that difficultyor expense willsubstantially affect the child's right to maintain personal relations and directcontact with both parents on a regularbasis; (f) the capacity of: (i) each of the child's parents; and (ii) any other person (including any grandparent or other relative of thechild); to provide for the needs of the child, including emotional and intellectualneeds; (g) the maturity, sex, lifestyle and background (including lifestyle,culture and traditions) of the child and of either of the child'sparents, andany other characteristics of the child that the court thinks are relevant; (h) if the child is an Aboriginal child or a Torres Strait Islander child: (i) the child's right to enjoy his or her Aboriginal or Torres StraitIslander culture (including the right to enjoy that culturewith other peoplewho share that culture); and (ii) the likely impact any proposed parenting order under this Part willhave on that right; (i) the attitude to the child, and to the responsibilities of parenthood,demonstrated by each of the child's parents; (j) any family violence involving the child or a member of the child'sfamily; (k) if a family violence order applies, or has applied, to the child or amember of the child's family--any relevant inferencesthat can be drawn from theorder, taking into account the following: (i) the nature of the order; (ii) the circumstances in which the order was made; (iii) any evidence admitted in proceedings for the order; (iv) any findings made by the court in, or in proceedings for, the order; (v) any other relevant matter; (l) whether it would be preferable to make the order that would be leastlikely to lead to the institution of further proceedingsin relation to thechild; (m) any other fact or circumstance that the court thinks is relevant. Ihave regard to the provisions of s 60B and the factors set out in s 60CC. Thisis a matter where there are serious allegations of family violence and given thehistory provided by the wife in both her writtenand oral evidence it is clearshe has taken, and continues to take, careful steps to protect the children fromthose aspects of familyviolence as much as she can, although given the historythat is at some levels, perhaps, easier said then done. Thewife is not closed to the idea of the children spending time with the husbandprovided it is safe and meets their needs. Shegave evidence of endeavouringand putting in place arrangements for the children to speak with the husband. Iam satisfied thereis some benefit in the children having a continuingmeaningful relationship with the husband provided it is in safe circumstancesfor both the wife and the two children and I will be leaving it to her to putthose in place. Thewifes application is silent in relation to the question of parentalresponsibility but it is implicit, and clearly implicit,from the evidenceincluding that of the wife seeking to travel overseas and to have passports forthe children, that she seeks soleparental responsibility for them and I willtreat it as such and make that order. There is evidence of the wishes of thechildrenwhich are understandably ambivalent. They do not want to see thehusband but they want to know the husband is safe. They worryabout the wife. I have had regard to that evidence. Thewife is the primary carer of the children and has been their primary carer sincebirth. They have a relationship with the husbandbut that is troubled which Ihave referred to earlier. Since separation the wife has taken all steps to carefor the children andhas endeavoured to enable them to spend time with thehusband provided it is safe and communicate with the husband provided it issafe. Thereis no evidence before me that the husband is paying any child support. The wiferelies upon her income and some governmentbenefits to which she has alluded. The wife has fulfilled her role in terms of her obligations to maintain thechildren and thehusband has not done so, particularly given the monies that hehas sent overseas over the years. Thereare no suggestions as to any change in the childrens circumstances. There is practical difficulty and expense in termsof time because it will haveto be initially, I would have thought, supervised and supervised by someoneother than the wife andin some safe circumstance. The children are four andsix and have parents of Indian background and the wife is anxious, I thinkisthe right word, to ensure that that background is maintained provided it is safefor them. Thewife has shown a strong attitude to the responsibility of parenthood. Thehusband has not accepted that responsibility at allsince separation and,perhaps, in a very minimal way during the course of the marriage. There isevidence of family violence andthere is a family violence order to which I havehad regard. Theorder that I will make will be a final order. In terms of overseas travel, Iintend to permit the wife to travel overseas forholidays of no more than sixweeks until each of the children are 13 years. I also give the wife permissionto apply for passportsfor the children as and when they needthem. PROPERTY Interms of property, the pool of property was set out in the wifesaffidavit. It comprises an interest in a home at SuburbB with equity of about$150,000 give or take a small sum. That property is in the joint names of thehusband and wife and is subjectto a mortgage. The wife asks that any orders Imake involve the transfer of the house to her and she will arrange for the banktodischarge the mortgage and take out another mortgage. The other property towhich the wife alludes is the money totalling at least$48,000 that the husbandsent overseas, and other monies. The husband has not engaged in the proceedingso it is not clear how muchmoney was involved or where that money is exceptthat it is in India. I take it that there is a sum of at least that amount inIndiaand the full details of which the husband has not disclosed to the Courtdespite his obligations to do so. I take into account thelaw relating to hisobligations to disclose in coming to the conclusions that I have come to. Thewife owns a Toyota motor vehicle. There is some evidence that its value isabout $15,000. The husband has a Holden motor vehicle. There are savings ofabout $500. Each of the parties has superannuation. The husband hassuperannuation of $47,673. The wifehas superannuation of about $34,600. Thewife has credit card liabilities of about $1100 and a HECS liability of $15,640.She borrowed$8000 from her daughters trust fund to which she had appliedto reduce another credit card debt and which she quite properlyacknowledges asa debt to her child, and I believe shes paying it back at the sum of $200per month or the like. THE LAW IN RELATION TO PROPERTY Thelaw regarding the treatment of property has been clarified following the HighCourt decision in Stanford vStanford.[1] Prior to thatdecision the preferred approach was the four step process as reflected by theFull Court in cases such as Hickey v Hickey and the Attorney General for theCommonwealth of Australia (Intervener) [2003] FamCA 395; (2003) FLC 93-143. FollowingStanford v Stanford (supra) the approach is that a Court must firstly besatisfied that before making any order it is just andequitable[2] to do so. Thenconsider what orders, if any, should be made having regard to s 79(4) of theAct. Thisapproach was later adopted in Bevan &Bevan,[3] where Bryant CJ andThackray J noted that the Stanford and Stanford (supra) decision:- ... serves to refocus attention on the obligation not to make an order adjustingproperty interests unless it is just and equitableto do so.[4] InChapman & Chapman[5]the Full Court considered the independence of ss 79(2) and 79(4) andconfirmed that Bevan v Bevan (supra) correctly stated the law in relationto the Courts consideration of s 79(2), whether the making of an order is justand equitable. At paragraph 19 of their joint reasons Strickland and Murphy JJsaid:- Section 79 demands a consideration, separately, of all of its requirementswithout conflation. However,their Honours disagreed with any intention of plurality in Bevan v Bevan(supra), in that the Court must consider the matters in s 79(4) whenaddressing s 79(2) of the Act in terms of what order is to be made. To clarify,Bryant CJ said in a separate judgment:- Whatever differences mayexist as to the meaning of [84] and [85] of Bevan, I am in agreement withStrickland and Murphy JJ that itis not a requirement to take account of thematters in s 79(4) when considering the question of whether it is just andequitable to make any order under s 79(2). But as long as they are seen asseparate and not conflated, the factors in s 79(4) have the potential to informthe decision under s 79(2) ... Theapproach I will adopt in determining a division of property willbe:- identify in the context of the ordinary legal principles theexisting legal and equitable interests and property of the parties  and I have, in fact, done so. Iwill consider the contributions made by each of the parties in relation to thatproperty. I will then look at the other factorsand determine, first of all,whether I ought to make an order having regard to the direction given to thisCourt by the High Courtin Stanford (supra) and, if so, what adjustment,if any, I should make. Theformer matrimonial home is in joint names, the cars of the parties are in theirrespective names and the bank accounts are intheir joint names as far as I amaware. The superannuation funds are in each of the partys respectivenames. The liabilityto the bank is in the joint names, although that willchange given the orders I propose to make. The credit card is the liabilityofthe wife, as is the liability for the loan from the daughters trust andher HECS liability. The wife does not seek anadjustment of superannuation andI have been conscious of this in terms of the determination I have made that thesuperannuationof the husband is larger than the superannuation of the wife. Interms of contribution I refer to that which I alluded to earlier, that is, thewife came in with a greater initial contribution. The husband has made lesscontributions overall than the wife given her non-financial contributions andher role in the financialcontributions she has made over the period of themarriage which was from December 2003 to October 2013. In terms of future needstheres no issue as to the health of either party. They are bothrelatively young. The husband is aged 35. The wife is aged31. Eachhas qualifications including the husband as a healthcare worker. The wife workswith Company D and receives a modest income. The wife has the sole care of thetwo children which will be an enormous economic and emotional burden for her;though as shesnot saying that she shirks from that, I have taken it intoaccount. The property settlement that she seeks is essentially that sheretainsthe home subject to the mortgage, each party retain their superannuation, theyretain the property in their possession, sheretains the money in the joint bankaccounts of about five or six hundred dollars and that she will be responsiblefor the liabilities. Itis on the high side but given the circumstances to which I have alluded andwhich is contained in the affidavits I determine thatfirst of all, it is justand equitable to make an order; secondly, that the order sought by the wife interms of the property isin all the circumstances just and equitable, and I willmake those orders. I certify that the preceding thirty five(35) paragraphs are a true copy of the reasons for judgment of the HonourableJustice Benjamindelivered on 2 October2014. Associate: Date: 2 October 2014 [1] [2012] HCA 52, (2012) 293 ALR70. [2] Section79(2). [3] [2013] FamCAFC 116; (2013) FLC93-545. [4] Ibid at para65. [5] [2014] FamCAFC 91. AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/893.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               