FAMILY LAW  PROPERTY Superannuation  Application by wife seeking property adjustmentagainst the husband Orders made splitting superannuation in favour ofwife Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) APPLICANT: Mr Parrish RESPONDENT: Ms Parrish FILENUMBER: MLC 1349 of 2012 DATE DELIVERED: 19 August 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Melbourne PLACE HEARD: Melbourne JUDGMENT OF: Benjamin J HEARING DATE: 19 August 2014 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: In Person SOLICITOR FOR THE APPLICANT: COUNSEL FOR THERESPONDENT: In Person SOLICITOR FOR THE RESPONDENT: ORDERS Thebase amount allocated to Ms Parrish (the wife) in theseproceedings out of the interest of Mr Parrish (thehusband) andhis superannuation account (...) with Cbus Industry Super is forty thousanddollars ($40,000). Pursuantto s 90MT (1) of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) whenever asplitable payment becomes payable in respect of the interest of the husband inCbus Industry Super the wife shallbe entitled to be paid an amount calculatedin accordance with Part VI of the Family Law (Superannuation) Regulation 2001,using the base amount and there would be a corresponding reduction in theentitlementof the person to whom the splitable payment would have been made butfor these orders. Acopy of these Orders must be served on the Trustee of the husbandssuperannuation account with Cbus Industry Super withintwenty eight (28) days ofthe date hereof. Ifno objection is received from the Trustee, and no application is made by thetrustee to vary these orders within 30 days afterservice of such document thenthe orders shall become binding upon the Trustee. Order2 has effective date from the operative time. Theoperative time for the purpose of Order 5 is four (4) business days after theexpiry of the time specified in Order 4. Acopy of an affidavit of service of these Orders on the Trustee of Cbus IndustrySuper shall be filed by the husband and a copy servedon the wife within seven(7) days of the document being served on the said Trustee. Leavebe granted for the husband and wife to apply to the Court in the event that theTrustee is unable to comply with this Order,such leave to be available for six(6) months from the date of this Order. Allextant applications be dismissed. IT IS NOTED that publication of this judgment by this Court underthe pseudonym Parrish & Parrish has been approved by the ChiefJustice pursuant to s 121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT MELBOURNE FILE NUMBER:MLC 1349 of 2012 Mr Parrish Applicant And Ms Parrish Respondent REASONS FOR JUDGMENT Introduction Thisis a proceeding commenced by Ms Parrish (the wife) seeking aproperty adjustment against Mr Parrish (thehusband). It is anunusual matter in this Court, as the amounts involved are relatively modest andI would normally haveexpected this to have been determined in the FederalCircuit Court. It is also unusual in that neither of the parties have filedsignificant affidavit material as to the matters that the Court would normallyhave needed to determine a property settlement. However,the parties were involved in parenting proceedings which were resolved earliertoday, and the amounts involved were of sucha relatively modest level that tosend the parties away to come back would have simply added to the conflict andcost to which theyhave already been engaged over a number of years, theseproceedings having commenced in one form or another in about February 2012,andits now coming up to two and a half years of constant litigation. Thewife accepts that the husband has a superannuationentitlement of about $131,000and seeks an order for a split of that superannuation into half, which wouldgive her about $65,500. Thewife also says that at separation, the husband sold the car and received about$8,000, and she wants $4,000 of that. She complainsthat the house was full offurniture at the time of separation, and that most of that has been retained orkept by the husband. The wife seeks, as I said, a total non-superannuationproperty settlement of $4,000. The husband tendered superannuation statements,being Exhibits H1, H2 and H3, which shows that as at 1 July 2004, he hadsuperannuation entitlements of about $18,700, and this wasabout 18 months afterthe parties commenced cohabitation. Thesecond document, which is Exhibit H3, shows that the husbandssuperannuation as at 30 June 2011, which was about five monthsafter theyseparated, had a value of about $72,100. He has tendered a third document,which is Exhibit H1, which shows that hiscurrent superannuation entitlementsare about $131,000 being an increase from $105,000 in June the preceding year. The husband acknowledgesthat the wife should receive some superannuation, butsubmits that it ought to be $20,000 and there ought not to be a payment of$4,000. Issues Theissue is primarily what adjustment ought to be made to the superannuation asset,the wife having no superannuation to which shehas disclosed at this stage. The Background Thewife is aged 43. The husband is aged 42. They met and commenced cohabitationin about January 2003. They married in January2004 and separated in January2011. Their marriage still subsists, although the husband now lives in a defacto relationship withMs B and her three children, aged 16, 13 and eight. Atthe time of commencing cohabitation, the wife had three children of a previousrelationship: K now aged 15, J now aged 17, and N who is now aged 20. Ndoes not live with the wife. J lives with the wife and is currentlyendeavouring to obtain employment. K, the wifes youngerchild, liveswith the husband, and orders were made earlier today that she continue to livewith him, and I approved those ordersat that time. In addition, the partieshave a child of their relationship, Y who was born in January 2005 and is nowaged nine anda half. She lives primarily with the husband, and pursuant to theorders made by me today, she will spend regular time with hermother, the wife,on alternate weekends and parts of school holidays and special occasions. Thehusband relied upon his affidavit sworn 6 August 2014. The wife relied upon herfinancial statement filed 15 April 2014 and heraffidavit filed 7 March 2014. In her affidavit, the wife deposed that she earns about $800 to $900 per week asa casual, and sheat that time was paying rent of $400 per week; that has nowincreased to $420 per week. The wife pays child support in relationto thechildren totalling $91 per calendar month and arrears of some $64 per calendarmonth. There was no evidence before me asto the full amount of those arrears. Thewife suffered ill health prior to and subsequent to the breakup of therelationship. Part of that involved self-medication throughalcohol and othersubstances. I need not go into that at this stage, as it does little in termsof the property aspect of it. Thewife received a payout from an employer in aworkers compensation type claim of some $200,000, of which she eventuallyreceivedabout $160,000. She deposes that this money became available to herafter separation, and that she has applied all of that moneyin setting herselfup again, living expenses and legal costs. Thehusband disputes that and says that he thought that there was some money putaside in a trust, but there is no evidence of thosefunds, although I have hadregard to the wife having access to those funds since separation. It is likelythat the funds were primarilycontributed, in any event, by the wife, althoughnot much information was provided in that respect. The wife otherwise haspropertytotalling about $25,000, which amounts to a Ford motor vehicle worth$23,000 and household contents worth $2000. As I said, shehas the care of hersecond eldest child, who is aged 17. Thehusband works in the construction industry and worked throughout the marriageand since the marriage, earning a strong income. His current income is some$1,827 per week. His partner earns about $380 per week. From thehusbands material, it appearsthat with his income, his partnersincome and child support, they just barely manage on a week to week basis. Hepays rentof about $450 per week and pays health insurance. He has propertytotalling about $38,000, which includes a Holden motor vehicleand a Ford motorvehicle. In addition the husband says that he has a motorbike, a Suzuki whichhas a value of $5000, and tools toa value of about $5000. However,I am told that the motorbike has gone. Each of the parties have modestnon-superannuation assets. The superannuation assets I havedealt with. Approaching this matter in terms of the guidance given by the High Court inStanford[1] and in the FullCourt of this Court inBevan[2], my first task is towork out whether I ought to make an adjustment of property as between theparties. I intend to divide thisinto two areas. Firstly,the non-superannuation property. Whilst I have some sympathy for the wife withregard to non-superannuation property, itseems that the only evidence I have asto the sale of the car is that when it was sold, the proceeds were used to payout a liability. The wife had a significant amount of money, part of which mayhave been money to which the husband may have been able to claim,but there isnone of that left. Each of the parties is now working. The husband has aresponsibility to care for the younger twochildren plus a responsibility to hispresent partner, who in turn has responsibility to care for her three children,aged 16, 13and eight respectively. Giventhe small amount of property and the history of this matter, I am not satisfiedinsofar as the non-superannuation property isconcerned that the Court ought tomake any property order in that area. As to the superannuation property this issomewhat different. Over the course of the parties relationship, each ofthem contributed in their own way. The wife cared for the four childrenin thehousehold, albeit only one of those children was a child of the husband. Thehusband provided financial support for thosechildren, although the level ofthat financial support is either not clear or not agreed. They received modestchild support, butnot significant child support. Overthat period of time, the superannuation fund grew by about $53,000 or$54,000 thousand dollars. Following separation, the husbandended up withmore of the furniture and effects than perhaps that of the wife, but did nothave access to the funds of the wife towhich I alluded earlier. He has had theprimary care of the younger children, given the illness of the wife to which Ihave referredto earlier. It seems to me that the wife has made significantcontribution to those funds. Interms of future needs, each of the parties is in good health. Each has someresponsibility to support others. The wife, J atleast for the next 10 or ninemonths; the husband in relation to the younger two children, and, of course, aresponsibility to hispartner. His earning capacity is greater than that of thewife, but the drawings on those earnings, given his circumstances, arefargreater. Given those contributions and those future needs, I am satisfied, as Isaid that there ought to be an adjustment, butit ought not to be 50 per cent. Nor,dare I say, should it be the simple mathematical figure raised by the husband onthe basis that part of the increase in the valueof the superannuation fund fromseparation to now arise by virtue of his contributions, but another part arisesby virtue of thenatural increase in the fund itself. I do not have evidence asto what those various figures may be. It may be that the stock marketwent wellor it may be the stock market went badly; I do not know. Given all of thosecircumstances, I am satisfied that there oughtto be an adjustment of thesuperannuation, but at a level less than that sought by the wife but greaterthan that sought by the husband. Iintend to make an order that there be a split of the superannuation to theextent of $40,000. I am going to make an order howeverI cannot make that as afinal order at this stage. What I will be doing is formulating an order anddirecting the husband to forwarda copy of that order to the superannuationfund, and giving them leave to make application if they consider the structureof theorder needs to change. Once the superannuation fund replies, then theorder will be made. I will otherwise dismiss the propertyproceedings betweenthe parties, unless theres anything else the parties wish to add tothat. I certify that the preceding seventeen (17) paragraphs area true copy of the reasons for judgment of the Honourable Justice Benjamindelivered on 19 August 2014. Associate: Date: 19August 2014 [1] Stanford v Stanford [2012] HCA 52, (2012) 293 ALR70. [2] Bevan & Bevan[2013] FamCAFC 116; (2013) FLC 93-545 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/851.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             