FAMILY LAW  PRACTICEAND PROCEDURE  Application for stay of interim parenting Orders pendingappeal  Considerationof principles set out in Aldridge & Keaton [2009] FamCAFC 106  Best interest of the child  Desirabilityin limiting the frequency of any change in the childs living arrangements Appeal to be heard within short period of time  Person who hasobtained a judgment entitled to the benefit of thatjudgment and to presume itis correct  Bona fides of applicant  Application dismissed Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) Aldridge & Keaton [2009]FamCAFC 106 De L v Director-General Department of Community Services(NSW) [1996] HCA 9 Jennings Constructions Ltd v Burgundy RoyaleInvestments Pty Ltd (No.1) [1986] HCA 84 APPLICANT: Ms Hammond RESPONDENT: Mr Hammond INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: Mr Naidovski FILENUMBER: PAC 1867 of 2008 DATE DELIVERED: 21 February 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Parramatta PLACE HEARD: Parramatta JUDGMENT OF: Hannam J HEARING DATE: 21 February 2014 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: Ms Merkin SOLICITOR FOR THE APPLICANT: Kim Eccleston Family Law Sole Practitioner SOLICITOR FOR THERESPONDENT: Lamrocks Solicitors SOLICITOR FOR THE INDEPENDENT CHILDRENSLAWYER: Legal Aid NSW ORDERS (1) Order 3 of themothers Amended Application in a Case filed 17 February 2014 seeking thatthe interim parenting orders dated18 December 2013 be stayed is dismissed. (2) The application for Order 1 of the mothers Amended Application in aCase filed 17 February 2014 seeking that her HonourJustice Hannam step aside beadjourned pending the outcome of the appeal. (3) The application for Order 4 of the mothers Amended Application in aCase filed 17 February 2014 seeking that affidavitof Ms G be filed be adjournedpending the outcome of the appeal. (4) The remaining orders sought in the mothers Amended Application in aCase filed 17 February 2014 in relation to the interimorder be stood-overpending determination of the appeal. IT IS NOTED thatpublication of this judgment by this Court under the pseudonym Hammond &Hammond has been approved by the Chief Justice pursuant to s 121(9)(g) ofthe Family Law Act 1975 (Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT PARRAMATTA FILE NUMBER:PAC 1867 of 2008 Ms Hammond Applicant And Mr Hammond Respondent And Independent ChildrensLawyer REASONS FOR JUDGMENT INTRODUCTION & BACKGROUND Thismatter concerns the child A, (the child), who is almost 9, thedaughter of Mr Hammond, (the father)and Ms Hammond, (themother). The father and the mother (the parents) have beenengaged in litigationconcerning the child for much of her life. The first setof parenting proceedings in relation to the child were completed in May2010 andthe mother initiated the current proceedings in the Federal Magistrates Court,as it then was, in November 2011. These proceedingswere transferred to theFamily Court and in March 2013 on the first day of the Less Adversarial Trial,Johnston J ordered a FamilyReport, and on 17 June 2013 his Honour also ordereda Chapter 15 Expert Report in relation to any risk of harm that the father maypresent to the child and the management of that risk, if it existed. InJune 2013 the Chapter 15 Expert, Dr E, carried out interviews and assessmentsfor the purpose of her report, which was releasedto the parties on 22 August2013. TheFamily Consultant interviewed various people, including the Applicant mother andthe child on 11 November 2013. The Family Consultantsreport dated 25November 2013 was released to the parties in Court on 17 December 2013. On17 December 2013 the father was granted leave to bring an oral application forinterim parenting orders (the fathersinterim parentingapplication), essentially to reverse the Orders then in place withrespect to the child. Following an interimhearing on 18 December 2013,parenting Orders were made, essentially in accordance with the fathersapplication. Ex temporereasons were given for this decision. Those parentingOrders are now subject to an appeal to the Full Court, which is listed to beheard during the week commencing 17 March 2014 on a date to be specified. Byan Application in a Case filed on 6 February 2014 the mother seeks orders inrespect of three matters and the first of those isthat the interim parentingOrders of 18 December 2013 be stayed. This decision concerns that part of theapplication. Themothers application for a stay of the interim parenting Orders is opposedby the father and the Independent ChildrensLawyer. BACKGROUND TO THE APPLICATION Inaddition to the matters set out in the introduction there are some otherfollowing matters that are relevant to the determinationof this stayapplication and these are as follows. BothDr E, the Chapter 15 Expert, and the Family Consultant, albeit that thosereports are untested, expressed concern about the emotionalharm to the childarising from the conflict from these proceedings themselves. The mothersmost recent affidavit also refersto the child expressing her own concern abouthaving to go to Court. So far as I understand it, it is not in dispute betweentheparties that the proceedings themselves, have occasioned the child someconsiderable distress. Themothers application for parenting orders, that is, her substantiveapplication before the Court, is based to a large extenton her contention thatthere is an unacceptable risk of harm to the child when in the care of thefather. It appears that the mothercontinues to maintain that there is anunacceptable risk that the father has sexually harmed the child himself and thathe has sexuallyharmed her with the paternal grandmother. It is also themothers contention that the father has deficits in his parentingas thechild has been sexually harmed by her half-brother whilst both children were inthe care of the father. It seems to be suggestedthat the father is in some wayresponsible for his sons sexual abuse of the child, that hefailed to protectthe child from it, that he failed to respond appropriately toit and that there is a risk that it will happen again. Sofar as I understand the fathers case, any and all allegations of sexualharm allegedly perpetrated by himself and his motherare denied. In relation tohis son P, who was aged 10 at the time of the alleged sexualabuse, as I understand it,the father does not deny that an incident,which had sexual overtones, occurred, but he does not accept that it amounted tosexualassault, that he was responsible for it, that he behaved inappropriatelyin any way or there is any risk that it will happen again. Inthe fathers application, so far as I understand it, he is concerned aboutthe risks posed to the child by the mothersvolatile and unpredictablebehaviour and parenting capacity, and in particular in failing to meet thechilds emotional needs. Theinterim parenting Orders made on 18 December 2013 followed an application madeupon the release of the Family Report. The fatheralso relied upon his own trialaffidavit, though it was accepted and understood that this almost completelycontained matters whichare in dispute. He also relied upon the report of Dr E. Themother at the hearing of the interim parenting Orders not only placed greatemphasis on the fact that the Family Consultantsreport was uncontested,but also submitted that the report was fundamentally flawed in that the FamilyConsultant was not an expertand it was submitted that the report was itselfinadmissible. There was also a challenge to some incidents which were reportedbythe child, and upon which the Family Consultant relied to some degree, suchas the suggestion by the child that her mother had brokenwindows at the home,the maternal grandmother had deliberately broken a DVD player and that the childlocked herself in a cupboardfor comfort. These specific challenges were takeninto account and some of them, such as the issue of the broken windows, wasreferredto in the Judgment. It was made clear in the Judgment that it appearedthat the Family Consultant relied on the allegations madeby the child as onlyone of a number of sources of information upon which she made herassessment. THE SUBMISSIONS Themothers submissions in relation to the application to stay the interimparenting Orders made on 18 December 2013 are basedon the High Court decisionin De L v Director-General Department of Community Services(NSW)[1] where his Honour Gummow Jquoted with approval another High Court decision in Jennings ConstructionsLtd v Burgundy Royale Investments Pty Ltd(No.1)[2]. Themothers submissions in relation to the stay application are asfollows:- that the stayought to be granted to preserve the subject matter of the proceedings; that although itis well established that discretionary decisions are difficult to overturn onappeal, two of the grounds of appealrelate to, as I understand it, allegederrors of law and the possibility of success cannot be excluded given the natureof the mattersthat had to be determined; that the fatherin these circumstances is not entitled to the presumption of the correctness ofthe decision as it was based on uncontestedevidence; that the motheris bone fide in bringing the appeal; that it is inthe best interests of the child for the stay to be granted as if the interimOrders remain, the child will have to endurethe deficiencies in herfathers parenting, being exposed to her fathers coaching her withrespect to the proceedingsand the risk of being assaulted by her half- brotherP; and that the matteris listed for hearing in the week commencing 17 March 2014, which is just overthree weeks away, during which timethe child is exposed to the risks associatedwith her current living arrangements. Sofar as the best interests of the child are concerned, the mother madesubmissions that:- there is a needto protect the child from physical harm in the sense of being exposed to therisk of further behaviour on Psbehalf, which she describes as sexualassault; that the Courtshould have regard to the nature of the childs relationship with hermaternal grandparents, which is being damagedby the fathers approachtaken to the current Orders and the Orders themselves; and that thefathers parenting capacity is impaired in that the alleged sexual assaultby P occurred in his home when the childrenwere under his care and that hefailed to respond to it appropriately, and because of his coaching of the childwith respect to theproceedings. Themothers submissions in relation to the preservation of the subject matterof the proceedings is also related to the likelihoodof the appeal being upheldand, of course, to the ultimate matter in issue and that is what is in the bestinterests of the child,which on her case is for the child to reside primarilywith the mother. Thefathers submissions in response to this application adopt the approachtaken by the Full Court in Aldridge &Keaton[3] in which it is said at[18] that the authorities relevant to an application for stay of orders both inthe general law and in respectof parenting proceedings include 11 principlesset out in that paragraph. In addition to the matters raised by the mother, thefatherrefers to and relies upon the principle that a person who has obtained ajudgment is entitled to the benefit of that judgment andis entitled to presumethe judgment is correct. The mother submits that a person in the position of thefather in these circumstancesis not entitled to the presumption of correctnessof the decision where it was made on uncontested evidence. In my view, there isno basis for this submission and any authority which distinguishes a stay inrespect of interim proceedings from a stay in respectof final orders has notbeen referred to, and in these circumstances, those principles do apply. Anumber of matters referred to in the 11 principles identified in Aldridge& Keaton (supra) are not relied upon by either party. For example, it isnot suggested, nor do I find, that there is a risk that the appealin thismatter may be rendered nugatory if the stay is not granted. The principle thatthe onus is on the applicant to establisha proper basis for the stay but thatit is not necessary for the applicant to demonstrate any special or exceptionalcircumstances,and that the mere filing of an appeal is insufficient to grant astay, are noted. Althoughboth parties referred to the principle that a stay may be granted on terms thatare fair to all parties, which may involvea Court weighing the balance ofconvenience and the competing rights of the parties, all parties agree that in acase such as thisfairness to the parties must yield to the best interests ofthe child. Sofar as the bona fides of the Applicant in bringing the appeal is concerned, I amof the view that, notwithstanding the submissionsof the mother, there are someconcerns as to whether the appeal is bona fide, which was raised by the father.The matter relied uponby the father in suggesting that the mother may not bebone fide related to additional orders that the mother is seeking in the appeal,being orders that the child spend time with the father at a contact centre,which is an entirely new suggestion, in circumstanceswhere on two occasionspreviously the mother had consented to Orders including for time with the fatherto be unsupervised. Submissionswere made by the mother and responded to by the father in relation to apreliminary assessment of the strengths of theproposed appeal, that is, whetherthe mother has an arguable case. The mother conceded that most of the mattersupon which the appealis based are discretionary and it was conceded thatmatters of discretion are difficult to overturn on appeal, though there weretwogrounds of appeal which were said to relate to errors of law. Thefirst is ground five in the Notice of Appeal which states: HerHonour erred in making interim orders reversing residency of the child contraryto the High Court authority that Custodyor access will not be granted toa parent if it would expose the child to an unacceptable risk of sexualabuse. I understand the mothers case to be that the unacceptable risk ofsexual abuse refers to conduct by the child P. Although theissue of whetherPs conduct towards the child amounts to sexual abuse is contested, inlight of Ps age at the time(10 years), the nature of the allegationseven taken at their highest, and considering the evidence of Dr E, an expert insexualoffending, and the Family Consultant, a psychologist with experience insexual assault, it is unlikely, in my view, that this conductof P could beregarded as sexual abuse in the sense used by the High Court. The issue of thereliance by me on the Family Reportwhere it was submitted by the mother thatthe author was not an appropriate expert, was considered by me in that decisionand I standby that decision. Thenext matter referred to in Aldridge & Keaton (supra) upon whichsubmissions were made related to the period of time in which the appeal can beheard and whether existing satisfactoryarrangements may support the granting ofthe stay for a short period of time. This appeal will be heard in the weekcommencing 17March 2014, that is just over three weeks at the earliest orexactly one month at the latest. In my view, this is a short periodof time inwhich the current arrangements must be considered. The existing arrangementscame about after the interim Orders, whichare the subject of appeal, were madeand are, in my view, satisfactory. This is not a matter which involves afundamental changesuch as the reintroduction of a parent with whom the childhas had little contact, though there is no doubt that changing the residenceofthis child was significant. The fundamental areas upon which it appeared thatthe mothers case is based, and that is risksassociated with sexual harm,did not include (at the interim hearing or, indeed, at the trial, on the basisof the affidavit filed,)a challenge to evidence about matters such as thenature of the childs relationship with her father. So it appears thatthatis unchallenged evidence that she has a good relationship with her father,and I take that into account, in particular, in concludingthat the currentarrangements are satisfactory. Themost significant matter, in my view, arising from Aldridge & Keaton(supra), which is also a significant consideration with respect to thechilds best interests, was not addressed by the mother,and that is thedesirability of limiting the frequency of any change in the childs livingarrangements. This is a matter thatis heavily relied upon by the father and theIndependent Childrens Lawyer. It is submitted by the father that thischild hadone significant change in her circumstances as a result of the interimOrders in December 2013 and that the mothers positionthat the stay begranted, at best, would result in a second change in her living arrangements ifher appeal is upheld, or at worstcould result in two more changes in livingarrangements within a further three to four weeks if the appeal is dismissed.The IndependentChildrens Lawyer urges that I act with caution and do notrun the risk of further instability for the child by granting thestay. Both thefather and the Independent Childrens Lawyer also placed significantweight, which in my view is an appropriatematter to place significant on, theparticularly high level of conflict in these proceedings and the uncontestedevidence that theproceedings themselves have had significant impact upon thechild. TheIndependent Childrens Lawyer submitted that the Court gave considerationto each of the best interest considerations inthe interim parenting applicationand that there is nothing in the material filed by the mother that would suggesta change as againstthose considerations. Inmy view, much of the material filed by the mother is in fact not new in that itwas taken into account at the interim hearing,such as issues in relation to themothers characterisation of Ps conduct as sexual abuse, and thefathers parentingcapacity relating to this issue. Other new material, inmy view, goes to very peripheral matters, which were also to some extentarguedat the interim hearing. For example, although it was made clear in the interimdecision that, in my view, the Family Consultantdid not attach a significantdegree of weight to matters asserted by the child, (such as that her mother hadbroken windows,) andthat her assessment was based on a range of other matters,(such as her own observations about the mothers behaviour andcorroboratingdocuments,) the mother seemed and seems to be unduly focussed,both at the interim hearing and in obtaining the further evidencethat is nowbefore the Court, on refuting particular matters said to have been asserted bythe child, and in particular whether shedid or did not break windows. Inthe interim decision I considered all of the relevant best interestconsiderations, including a number which have not been addressedby the mothereven though they are, in my view, very weighty. In particular, the major concernin this matter, in my view, is theneed to protect the child from harm, inparticular psychological harm and emotional abuse on behalf of the mother. Itdoes not appear to be in dispute, and indeed is reinforced in the way in whichthis application has been argued, that the motherhas a significant focus on herbelief that the child has been the subject of a serious sexual abuse from P inthe past, that thefather behaved inappropriately with respect to that abuse,that the child continues to need some form of psychological support inrespectof the abuse, and that she remains at risk of being further abused. As was notedin the interim decision, it was interestingthat it was put forward by themother as an example of the fact that she is emotionally available to the child and able to offerher comfort and talk to her about matters of concern, that sherelates an incident which she says occurred on 18 November 2013. According tothe mother on this date the child is said to have revealed more extensive andcertainly more concerning features aboutthe alleged incidents of sexual harm ata time when the expert said that the childs current descriptions of herrelationshipwith P indicate she no longer feels troubled by the incidents of2010 and where the Family Consultant says the child did not appearto have anymemory of the incident relating to the sexual harm. On18 December 2013, after considering the evidence available to me and all of thesubmissions made and after applying each of therelevant best interest factors,I was of the view that it was in the best interests of this child to make thoseinterim Orders. Noneof the material filed since that date changes my view ofany of the best interest factors. Having regard in particular to the principlethat a person who has obtained a judgment is entitled to the benefit of thejudgment and is entitled to presumed the judgment iscorrect, and in attemptingto limit the frequency of any change in the childs living arrangements,together with the factthat this appeal will be held shortly and in having someconcerns about the bona fides of the appeal, and most importantly, havingregardto the best interest factors, which, in my view, remain the same, theapplication is dismissed. I certify that the preceding thirty(30) paragraphs are a true copy of the reasons for judgment of the HonourableJustice Hannam deliveredon 21 February 2014. Legal Associate: Date: 25 February 2014 [1] [1996] HCA9 [2] [1986] HCA 84 [3] [2009] FamCAFC 106 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/90.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       