FAMILY LAW  PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE Undefended proceedings  Interests of natural justice  Noappearanceby the father  No reasonable explanation for the father nothaving attended Court  Where the Court was satisfied thatthe father knewof the risk of orders being made in his absence  Where leave was grantedto the mother to have her applicationheard on an undefendedbasis. FAMILY LAW  CHILDREN  Best interests Magellan list  Abuse and family violence  Where the presumptionofequal shared parental responsibility was rebutted  Where there wasongoing sexual, physical and emotional abuse Where the overwhelmingconcern was to protect the children from physical or psychological harm and frombeing exposed to abuse andfamily violence  Orders made for the childrento live with mother and spend no time with the father  Mother to havesole parental responsibility  Orders made pursuant to s 68B of theFamily Law Act 1975 (Cth) that the father be restrained from contactingor approaching or attempting to contact or approach any of thechildren. FAMILY LAW  CHILDREN  Best interests Application to change childrens surname  Application to applyforreplacement passports for the children  Where the children are fearful ofthe father  Where the children have norelationship with their father Where it is in the best interests of the children to permit a change ofsurname without thefathers consent  Where it is in the bestinterests of the children for the mother to be able to apply for replacementpassports for the children. Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) ss 60B, 68B, 60CA,60CC, 61C, 61DA, 65AA & 65Y. Births Deaths and Marriages Act 1995(NSW) s 28(5) Beach v Stemmler (1979) FLC90-692 Chapman v Palmer (1978) FLC 90-510 Flanagan vHandcock (2001) FLC 93-047 George v Radford (1976) FLC90-060 Goode and Goode [2006] FamCA 1346; (2006) FLC 93-286; (2006) 36 Fam LR422 Jordan & Lloyd and Ors [2010] FamCA 288 Kelley v Kelly (1981) FLC 91-002 Mahoney v McKenzie [1993] FamCA 78; (1993) FLC92-408 Mazorski v Albright [2007] FamCA 520; (2007) 37 Fam LR 518 McCall vClarke [2009] FamCAFC 92; (2009) 41 Fam LR 483 MRR v GR (2010) 42 Fam LR531 Raymond v Harold [2009] FamCA 155 Skrabl v Leech (1989)FLC 92-016 APPLICANT: Ms Fadel RESPONDENT: Mr Jarrah INDEPENDENTCHILDRENS LAWYER: Karen L Haga &Associates FILENUMBER: PAC 2015 Of 2011 DATE DELIVERED: 21 February 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Parramatta PLACE HEARD: Parramatta JUDGMENT OF: Johnston J HEARING DATE: 17 & 18 February 2014 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: Mr Weaver SOLICITOR FOR THE APPLICANT: Mahony Family Lawyers FOR THE RESPONDENT: No appearance COUNSELFOR THE INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: MrGersbach SOLICITOR FOR THE INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: Karen L Haga & Associates ORDERS (1) Thatthe following parenting orders are made in relation to the children Eborn on ... November 2002, J born on ... December 2003 and F bornon ... January 2006 (the children). (2) That all previous orders are discharged. ParentalResponsibility (3) That the mother shall have sole parental responsibility for thechildren. Live With (4) That the children shall live with the mother. Spend Timeand Communication (5) That the father shall not spend time with, nor attempt to spend time with,nor communicate with, nor attempt to communicate with,thechildren. Protection (6) That pursuant to section 68B of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth)(the Act) the father, Mr Jarratt (also known as ...), shall be andis hereby restrained from contacting or approaching,or attempting to contact orapproach, any of the children, by any means whatsoever including through anythird party and furtherthe father is restrained from: (a) Attendingat or being within 100 metres of the place of residence of the children; (b) Attendingat or being within 100 metres of any place of employment of the children; (c) Attendingat or being within 100 metres of any school or educational institution attendedby the children. (7) IT IS NOTED that the above order 6 and each of its subparagraphs pursuant tos 68B of the Act are injunctions made for the personal protection ofthe children to which s 68C of the Act would apply and accordingly anypoliceofficer made aware of these orders and who on reasonable grounds believesthat such orders and injunctions have been breached bythe father, by eitherharassing, molesting, stalking or physically harming or threatening to harm anyof the children, may arrestthe father without warrant. (8) That, commencing on 11 February 2016, pursuant to s 68B of the Act thefather, Mr Jarrah (also known as ...), shall be and ishereby restrained fromcontacting or approaching, or attempting to contact or approach, the mother MsFadel by any means whatsoeverincluding through any third party and further thefather is restrained from: (a) Attendingat or being within 100 metres of the place of residence of Ms Fadel (b) Attendingat or being within 100 metres of any place of employment of Ms Fadel (c) Attendingat or being within 100metres of any school or educational institution attendedby Ms Fadel (9) IT IS NOTED that the above order 8 and each of its subparagraphs pursuant tos 68B of the Act are injunctions made for the personalprotection of MsFadel to which s 68C of the Act would apply and accordingly any policeofficer made aware of these orders and whoon reasonable grounds believes thatsuch orders and injunctions have been breached by the father, by eitherharassing, molesting,stalking or physically harming or threatening to harm themother, may arrest the father without warrant. Change ofNames (10) That the mother is authorised without any requirement to notify the fatheror obtain the fathers consent to apply tothe Registrar of Births, Deathsand Marriages for the children currently registered as E Jarrah born ...November 2002, J Jarrahborn ... December 2003 and F Jarrah born ... January2006 to now be registered in such names as the mother shall nominate. (11) That pursuant to section 28(5) of the Births Deaths and Marriages Act1995 (NSW) the Registrar shall register each of the children E Jarrah, JJarrah and F Jarrah in the form of name nominated by the motherpursuant toorder 10 herein. (12) IT IS NOTED that the mother shall be authorised to effect a change of namefor each of the children in the manner provided forby orders 10 and 11 absentthe fathers consent and knowledge for the personal protection of themother and children. Overseas Travel (13) That until further order, each party, Mr Jarrah (also known as ...) and MsFadel, their servants and/or agents be and are herebyrestrained from removingor attempting to remove or causing or attempting to cause or permitting orattempting to permit the removalof the said children E born ... November 2002(a female), J born ... December 2003 (a male) and F born ... January 2006(a male)by each party, their servants and/or their agents or by the childrenthemselves, from the Commonwealth of Australia AND IT IS REQUESTEDthat theAustralian Federal Police give effect to this order by placing the names of thesaid children on the Airport Watch Listin force at all points of arrival anddeparture in the Commonwealth of Australia and maintain the childrensnames on the AirportWatch List until the Court orders their removal or untilthe children each respectively attain 18 years of age. (14) That pursuant to s 65Yof the Act the mother is authorised and entitled to remove the children from theCommonwealth of Australiafor the purpose of travel at her discretion. (15) That pursuant to s 65Y of the Act the father is restrained fromremoving the children from the Commonwealth of Australia. (16) That the mother is permitted to apply for replacement Australian passportsfor the children in their changed names as registeredby the Registrar ofBirths, Deaths and Marriages (NSW) notwithstanding that there will be no consentby the father and the Courtrequests the Australian Government authorities toassist the mother in this regard. (17) IT IS NOTED THAT order 14 above is intended to permit the mother to travelwith the children upon passports issuing in the childrensnames as soregistered pursuant to the above orders. (18) IT IS NOTED that the orders made above are intended to vest sole parentalresponsibility for the children in the mother forthe purposes of the Family LawAct 1975 (Cth), the AustralianPassports Act 2005(Cth) and the Births Deaths and Marriages Act 1995 (NSW). (19) That the mother may serve a copy of these orders on: NSWRegistry of Births, Deaths and Marriages; AustralianDepartment of Foreign Affairs and Trade; AustralianPassport Office; AustralianFederal Police; NSWPolice; Centrelink; NSWDepartment of Family and Community Services; NSWDepartment of Housing AustralianChild Support Agency (20) IT IS NOTED that orders 8 and 9 above made pursuant to s 68B of theAct for the personal protection of the mother are to commenceon 11 February2016 in circumstances where the Final Apprehended Violence Order made on 10February 2014 by ... Local Court for herprotection will expire on 10 February2016. IT IS NOTED that publication of this judgment bythis Court under the pseudonym Fadel & Jarrah has been approved bythe Chief Justice pursuant to s 121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act 1975(Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT PARRAMATTA FILE NUMBER:PAC 2015 of 2011 Ms Fadel Applicant And Mr Jarrah Respondent REASONS FOR JUDGMENT MsFadel, to whom for convenience I shall refer as the mother, and MrJarrah, to whom for convenience I shall referas the father, havebeen involved in litigation over many years concerning parenting arrangements inrespect of theirthree children. Those children are E born in November2002, J born in December 2003 and F born in January 2006. Theimmediate matter before the Court is the hearing of the substantive parentingproceedings between the parents. APPLICATION TO PROCEED UNDEFENDED Therehas been a lot of difficulty in bringing these proceedings to a final trial. The mother filed her Initiating Application seekingfinal parenting orders on6 May 2011. Amore detailed history of the endeavours to bring these proceedings to finaltrial is set out in the judgment of the Full Court inthe appeal between theseparties being appeal EA23/2014 in respect of which judgment was delivered on12 February 2014. Sufficeit to say that at paragraph 18 thereof the FullCourt observed that the mothers final parenting application has beenlistedfor hearing on four previous occasions and on each of those occasions thehearing dates have been vacated. The Full Court observedthat on at least threeof those occasions the vacation of the hearing dates had been at thefathers request. That appealwas an appeal by the father against orderswhich I had made refusing the fathers application to vacate the hearingdates commencingon 17 February 2014. On12 February 2014, the date listed for hearing that appeal, the husband did notappear before the Full Court but rather sent a letterrequesting an adjournmentof the appeal. The Full Court refused the fathers application for theadjournment. It then proceededto consider the fathers appeal against myrefusal to vacate this weeks hearing dates and dismissed thatappeal. Shortlyprior to the commencement of the hearing on 17 February 2014 there wasreceived in the Registry a letter by the father, dated17 February 2014 in thefollowing terms: To the Family Court Parramatta. I [Mr Jarrah] asking kindly to set another date to my case instead of17.2.2014 as I am Unable to attend due to health reasons. My Medical certificates attached to my letter [Mr Jarrah] 17/2/2014 Attachedto the fathers letter was the same letter dated 8 December 2013 from a MsC, Clinical Psychologist, which the fatherplaced before the Full Court insupport of his application for an adjournment on 12 February 2014. The thrustof Ms Cs letterwas that she expressed the opinion that a six month breakfrom all legal matters related to the fathers case would assisthim inhis recovery from the emotional struggle she says he has been having in dealingwith issues related to his family law case. The fathers letter also hadattached to it a letter from a Dr M, general medical practitioner, dated13 February 2014 inthe following form: This is to certify thatMr [Jarrah] is a patient of mine and that he suffers from Rheumatoid Arthritis. On 4 February 2014, he attended[Suburb C] Hospital emergency complaining ofsevere neck pain as a result of a disc lesion in his cervical spine. He will be unfit to attend court for a period of one month. Inote from records produced on subpoena by Suburb C Hospital, and specificallythe relevant discharge referral in respect of thefather on 4 February 2014 thatthe father presented at the emergency department at the Hospital with what wasdescribed as non-traumaticneck pain that had been ongoing for three days. Onexamination it was noted that the father was ambulatory but not keen to movehisneck. His condition was discussed with a Dr N who prescribed appropriateanalgesia and discharged the father after a short timeat the Hospital. Inmy view the certificate by Dr M dated 13 February 2014 is to be considered inthis context, that is that the appropriate professionalofficer at the hospitalprescribed what was described as appropriate analgesia. I also note that theFull Court in its judgmenton 12 February 2014 referred to a letter from NALLawyers dated 11 February 2014 addressed to the Registrar of this Court to theeffect that the lawyers advised that they acted for the father in an apprehendedviolence hearing on 10 February 2014 at the LocalCourt, that the matter wascompleted at about 4:15 pm with the father undergoing lengthy cross-examination. Theonus to persuade the Court that a party to proceedings is reasonably unable toappear at Court lies on that party. In the lightof the material from theHospital referred to above and the fact that the father was able to appear atthe Local Court and undergolengthy cross-examination on 10 February 2014, in myview the rather bare certificate by Dr M dated 13 February 2014 does not comenear what I would regard as a reasonable explanation for the father not havingattended Court in the immediate proceedings. Incircumstances where the father had not appeared at Court, I adjourned theproceedings for the morning of 17 February 2014 to enablethe applicant motherand the Independent Childrens Lawyer to consider their respectivepositions. When the matter resumedin the mid-afternoon I telephoned thefathers telephone number from the courtroom. A male person answered thetelephone andI inquired whether that person was the father. I was informedthat the person was not the father but a friend of the father andthat thefather was not available because he was too sick. The person indicated that hisname was Mr H. I informed the person thatit was important that he convey tothe father that in the event that the father did not appear at Court at 10:00 amon 18 February2014 the mother proposed to ask the Court to hear herapplication as an undefended proceedings. The person at the other end of thetelephone line then disengaged the service. I was informed at that point, bylearned counsel for the mother, that the mother saidshe recognised the voice ofthe person at the fathers telephone service as in fact the fatherhimself. Ialso made directions for the mother to arrange personal service on the father ofa letter informing him about the matter that Ihad referred to during thetelephone call, namely that in the event that the father failed to appear atCourt on 18 February 2014the mother proposed to ask the Court to hear herapplication as an undefended proceedings. On18 February 2014 when the proceedings reconvened, the father was called severaltimes outside the courtroom and he was paged inthe Registry. There was noappearance by him. Iam satisfied that reasonable endeavours had been made to effect personal serviceon the father on the evening of 17 February 2014of a letter from themothers solicitor notifying him that if he did not appear at Court at10:00 am on 18 February 2014, themother proposed to ask the Court tohear her application as an undefended proceedings. There was an affidavit by MrO who deposedto the effect that he had attended at the fathers home,noticed that the fathers vehicle was in the driveway, had heardfootstepsinside the home but when he knocked on the door there was no answer. Afterapproximately ten minutes of endeavouring toraise the person inside the home,Mr O left the letter in the post box at the fathers home. Themother gave oral evidence to the effect that she had been in the courtroom whenI spoke with a male person at the telephone serviceof the father on17 February 2014. She said that she recognised the voice of the maleperson as that of the father. Themothers solicitor, Ms Beach, gave oral evidence that she had telephonedthe father before court on 18 February 2014 anda male person answered the call.Ms Beach asked whether the person was the father and he said this ishis friend. Ms Beach said that she had spoken to the father previouslyand identified the person who was speaking on the telephone as the father. WhenMs Beach asked the person for his name he disconnected the call. Inall the circumstances, I am satisfied that the father was aware that theproceedings were before the Court for hearing both on17 February 2014 and on 18February 2014. I am satisfied that the father could have been in no mistakethat if he failed to attendat Court at 10:00 am on 18 February 2014 the motherproposed to ask the Court to hear her application as an undefended proceedings.In these circumstances I gave leave to the mother to have her application heardas an undefended proceedings. APPLICATION Themother seeks orders to the following effect: That she havesole parental responsibility for the children; That thechildren live with her; That thechildren spend no time with, nor communicate in any way with, their father; That pursuant tos 68B of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) (the Act) thefather be restrained from contacting or approaching or attempting to contact orapproach any ofthe children and that he be specifically restrained from comingwithin 100 metres of the childrens residence, schoolor themothers place of employment or that of any of the children, such order tobe supported by a power of arrest withoutwarrant; That a similarorder be made to restrain the father in relation to the mother but only tocommence after the current Apprehended ViolenceOrder for the protection of themother expires on 10 February 2014; That she bepermitted to change the childrens surnames without the consent of thefather; That an order bemade pursuant to s 28(5) of the Births Deaths and Marriages Act 1995(NSW) to the effect that the Registrar register the childrens surnames intheir changed form as nominated by the mother; That she bepermitted to apply for replacement passports for the children in their changedsurnames; That pursuant tos 65Y of the Act she be permitted to remove the children from Australia forthe purpose of travel at her discretionand consequential orders to vary thecurrent watch list order. Thefather filed a Response to Initiating Application on 14 June 2011 in which hesought orders to the following effect: That the parentshave joint parental responsibility for the children; That thechildren live with their father; and That thechildren spend time with their mother each alternate weekend from after schoolFriday to 5:00 pm Sunday and such other timesas agreed between theparties. EVIDENCE Theevidence in support of the mothers application was her affidavit sworn on23 January 2014, numerous documents producedon subpoena particularly by publicauthorities and the report of the Chapter 15 single expert, Dr K. Onthe other hand, the father did not appear at Court to identify any affidavit orother material in his case. Inthese circumstances the only evidence properly before the Court for the purposesof the undefended hearing is the above materialin the mothers case whichcomes in to the evidence unchallenged. BACKGROUND Theparents were both born in Egypt and married there in January 2002. Theymigrated to Australia in October 2002. They separatedin April 2011. Sinceseparation the children have lived with their mother and they have spent no timewith their father since 17October 2011 when Dr K, psychiatrist, interviewedthem as single expert in these proceedings. THE ALLEGED VIOLENCE Themother alleged that the father was physically violent to her from the start oftheir marriage. She said that the day after theirmarriage the father slappedher in the face. She said that as the marriage progressed the violenceworsened. She said that thefather began to punch her to the face and body andthat such violence continued after they arrived in Australia. Themother deposed further as follows. In2006 the father began to argue with her and he punched her several times. Shebegan to scream and he said if you screamI will kill you. Sheran to the bedroom and pushed a table and mirror against the door. The fatherran at the door and brokethe table and mirror then picked up a piece of woodand beat her body with it. He picked up a high heel shoe and hit her in theface with it then put his hands around her throat and began to choke her. Sheheard the children screaming and he stopped. Themother reported this incident to her general medical practitioner, Dr S,who advised her to go to hospital. The father refusedto let her attend thehospital so she did not do so out of fear of further assaults from thefather. Thesingle expert Dr K asked Dr S about this. He said that Dr S said that themother did not report domestic violence by the fatheruntil after she and thefather separated. But Dr S did say that during the 2 years up toseparation, the mother presented with anumber of injuries or sorenesscomplaints which, in hindsight, Dr S thought probably represented thephysical impact of escalatingdomestic violence. Themother said that in December 2010 the father was yelling at her and began topunch her repeatedly. She said he then picked upa knife and held it above hishead saying words to the effect if you dont get away from me now Iwill kill you withthis knife. Themother said that in January 2011 she and the father were arguing. She said thathe threw the television remote control unit ather which hit her. Shesaid that the father would often swear and spit at her in public which causedher to become isolated and fearful of going outin public as a consequence ofher embarrassment and fear. Shesaid that the father was sexually abusive towards her, forcing her to engage invarious forms of sex against her will. She saidthe last time he forced her tohave sex with him was Easter 2010 when he woke her in the middle of the nightand wanted sex. Shesaid she refused but he forced her. She said at times hetried to choke her or punch her in the back. On10 May 2011 a Provisional Apprehended Violence Order (AVO) wasmade for the protection of the mother and the childrenagainst the father. Thestatement in support of this order was to the effect that the father had beenverbally abusing and physicallyassaulting the mother from the early years oftheir marriage. It said that the mother had never reported any incident topolicebecause she feared that the father may assault her because he had madethreats that he would kill her if she reported any incidentto the police. Thestatement continued that in June 2006, the mother and father were having averbal argument which escalated andthe father grabbed the mother and beganhitting her on the face and shoulder several times. The mother had a swolleneye and hershoulder was numb. The mother did not report this to police butasked the father to take her to the hospital which he refused todo. Thestatement went on to say that the father continued to physically assault themother and children but she never made a report. The statement continued thatin April 2011 in Egypt the father told the mother that he would kill her if shereported any incidentto the police. Inlate April 2011 the mother returned to Australia and reported to domesticviolence workers several incidents of assault by thefather on her. Theycontacted the police. Themother said that when the provisional AVO had been made on 10 May 2011 thefather informed her that he would go to Egypt and killall of her family there. Whenthe provisional AVO was before the Court on 27 May 2011 it became continued asan interim AVO. Inmy view, the evidence is such that it is more probable than not that what themother alleges by way of acts of domestic violenceperpetrated by the father onher, and the children, is true. Firstly, the evidence is unchallenged. Butalso the above informationfrom Dr S to Dr K adds weight to the likelyaccuracy of what the mother has alleged. Inaddition, I note the following matters. Einformed her school counsellor on 13 February 2012 that her father used to hither mother and make her feel like a slave and thathe hit E and her brotherswith his fist or a broken garden hose. E also told Dr K that if her fatherwas angry with the childrenhe would hit them. She also told Dr K that thefather would hit her mother. E gave as an example that one day she and one oftheboys had been running and they accidentally hit their heads. She said theirmother tried to stop their father hitting them and hethen hit the mother with astick, and he hit the children too. E said that the father had also hit themwith a piece of hose. Jtold Dr K that his father always hits and shouts in ourface. J described a time when he and F wereriding and F fell. He saidthe father had said that J had pushed F. The father shouted at J, hit him andput him in time out. J said the father then started hitting everybody. He saidthat the father was hitting J and pulling Js hair, he was goingto removeJs hair. J said that his mother said stop or she would call the police. J said then the father hit the motherwith a piece of hose. Jalso said to Dr K that his father also hit them with wooden sticks from thewindow. He said that they are scared that their fatherwill hit them again. Jalso informed Dr K that when they were in Egypt, after E ran up to her mother,their father hit her witha stick. DrK reported that he had a telephone conversation with the I Womens Refugeofficer Ms A who reported that when the motherfirst arrived at the Refuge shewas very frightened and very under-confident. She said that the mother andchildren reported violencefrom the father against them, that they had allappeared to be frightened of him and relieved to be away from him. Dr K saidthatMs A had found their accounts to be consistent over time, linked withcongruent emotion, and that there had been no factors whichled Ms A to doubttheir story. DrK believed the description by the mother and the children of the fathersverbal and physical aggression and physical violencetowards them, particularlythe mother, to have been an accurate description. So doI. INAPPROPRIATE BEHAVIOUR WITH CHILDREN AND SEXUAL ABUSE Themother said that many years ago the father informed her that he had paid a womanin Egypt for sex and obtained her permissionto have sex with her 9 yearold daughter. The mother said that such a practice is quite common in Egypt. Themother also said that when J and F were 2 or 3 years of age the father would sitthem on his lap whilst watching television andput his hand down the front ofthe childs pants. She saw the father touching the childs genitalsand the penis wouldbecome erect. She said that the children became used tothis behaviour and would say to her words to the effect see itshard like a stick. She said that the father did this most days and itappeared to be part of his normal interactions witheach of the boys. She saidthat she confronted the father about this and said that in her view it wasinappropriate. She said thatthe father would respond to the effect that, if hedid not do the activity the boy would not grow up to be a good man and that itwould make him a strong man to be with a woman. She said that the fatherinformed her that this was normal practice in the areain which he resided inEgypt. The mother did not believe him but felt that she could not do much aboutthis out of her fear thathe would assault her. Themother also said that she did not approve of the fathers focus oncleaning the genital area of each of the boys whilstthey were in the bath. Shesaid that her objections to this were dismissed by the father. She said thatthe fathers responseto her protests was that the behaviour was normaland that she would not know. She said that she had been very isolated in hercommunityand was unsure about what was accepted sexual practice and that shedid not report the activity to any person because of her fearof violence fromthe father if she did. Thenotes of the Department of Community Services record the mother having notifiedthe Department that the father had fondled theboys genitals on a numberof occasions, that notification being May 2011. The words recorded were thatthe father would sitthe boys on his lap, put his hands down their underweardaily and touch them until they were erect. DrK raised this matter with J. He said that J said that his father said that hehas to do massage. He said that his father puthis hand in his private partsand said that he was doing massage and, that J needed to learn. Dr K soughtelaboration about thismatter but J was not forthcoming. DrK expressed the view that he thought the episodes of the father stimulating theboys penises likely to have occurred. Hesaid that this was more in thedomain of the father teaching the boys about manhood than the father havingpaedophilic desires orurges. Dr K said this impression was based on his viewthat the mother overall presented as truthful and concerned, that he tookaccount of Js comments and thought such behaviour as being in line with aman who views himself as the boys guide,and has a very sexualised viewof male / female relationships. Dr K also said that it is disturbing andinappropriate behaviourshowing lack of respect for the child and lack ofunderstanding of the childs developmental needs at a pre-pubescent ageandeven at puberty for their need for respectful guidance rather than physicalobtrusion. Asindicated above, Dr Ks opinions in his report have come into the evidenceunchallenged. Onthe basis of all this material, in my view, it is more likely than not that thefather has acted towards the boys in the manneras describedabove. JS BROKEN LEG On14 May 2011, within a few weeks of the parties separating, J suffered a brokenleg. The mother took him to the emergency sectionof the Q Hospital. Therecords of the Hospital indicate that J jumped from play equipment landing onhis feet with subsequent pain in his right lowerlimb. An x-ray showed a spiralfracture of his tibia. A plaster cast was applied. Iam aware from my involvement with the father on the occasion of his applicationto vacate the hearing dates that the father hasa suspicion that the mother orsome other person is implicated somehow in this injury sustained by J. As Ihave said previously,the father sought advice by doctors in relation to thelikely circumstances surrounding the child sustaining the injury. However,in circumstances where the father provided no evidence in the proceedings thereis no issue about the circumstances in whichthe injury was sustained. Inote that the notes produced on subpoena by the Womens Refuge where themother and children were staying at the time containedan account by the motherwhich was on all fours with that in the Hospital records. TheIndependent Childrens Lawyer had no concern that this matter reflectedpoorly on the mother. On the evidence before theCourt, nor doI. THE APPLICABLE LAW Thestatutory provisions which guide the Court in its consideration anddetermination of parenting proceedings are set out in PartVII of the FamilyLaw Act 1975 (the Act). Whenconsidering making a parenting order the Court is to bear in mind the objects ofthe legislation and the principles underlyingthe objects as set out ins 60B of the Act. Theobjects in this context are to ensure that the best interests of the childrenare met by: Ensuring thatchildren have the benefit of both of their parents having a meaningfulinvolvement in their lives, to the maximum extentconsistent with the bestinterests of the child; and Protectingchildren from physical or psychological harm from being subjected to, or exposedto, abuse, neglect or family violence;and Ensuring thatchildren receive adequate and proper parenting to help them achieve their fullpotential; and Ensuring thatparents fulfil their duties, and meet their responsibilities, concerning thecare, welfare and development of theirchildren. Theprinciples underlying these objects are that (except when it is or would becontrary to a childs best interests): Children havethe right to know and be cared for by both their parents, regardless of whethertheir parents are married, separated,have never married or have never livedtogether; and Children have aright to spend time on a regular basis with, and communicate on a regular basiswith, both their parents and otherpeople significant to their care, welfare anddevelopment (such as grandparents and other relatives); and Parents jointlyshare duties and responsibilities concerning the care, welfare and developmentof their children; and Parents shouldagree about the future parenting of their children; and Children have aright to enjoy their culture (including the right to enjoy that culture withother people who share that culture). Indeciding whether to make a particular parenting order in relation to a child theCourt must regard the best interests of the childas the paramount consideration(s 60CA and s 65AA). Section 60CC of the Act sets out specificcriteria which must be consideredin determining what is in a childs bestinterests. Section61C of the Act provides to the effect that each of a childs parents hasparental responsibility until such time asthe child attains the age of 18 yearsunless the Court makes an order which alters that joint parental responsibility. Section61DA(1) of the Act provides that when making a parenting order in relation to achild the Court must apply a presumption thatit is in the best interests of thechild for the childs parents to have equal shared parental responsibilityfor the child. Theabove principles have been examined in numerous authorities including thedecision of the Full Court of this Court in the caseof Goode and Goode[2006] FamCA 1346; (2006) FLC 93-286; (2006) 36 Fam LR 422 and the High Court case of MRR vGR (2010) 42 Fam LR 531. These authorities in particular, guide courts inthe approach to be taken in determining parentingapplications. SECTION 60CC CONSIDERATIONS Howthe Court is to go about determining what is in the childs best interestsis set out in sub-sections 60CC(2), (3) and (4)of the Act. Primary Considerations Theprimary considerations are set out in s 60CC(2) of the Act. These are: The benefit tothe child of having a meaningful relationship with both of the childsparents; and The need toprotect the child from physical or psychological harm from being subjected to,or exposed to, abuse, neglect or familyviolence. Havingnoted these primary considerations at this point I shall return to discuss thesebelow. Additional Considerations  s 60CC(3) Theadditional considerations are set out in s 60CC(3) of the Act. Theseare: Sub-section 60CC(3)(a)  any views expressed by thechild and any factors (such as the childs maturity or level ofunderstanding)that the court thinks are relevant to the weight it should giveto the childs views Etold Dr K that she did not want to see her father. She said that she couldspend an hour with him but did not want to spend a day. When Dr K broughtthe children into the interview room E said that she did not wish to see herfather. Jtold Dr K that he did not wish to see his father at all. He saidHes mean. Atthe end of the day of interview Dr K asked all three children whether they wouldlike to speak with their father and they all saidNo. Iam satisfied that the children have expressed the clear view that they do notwish to have a relationship with their father. Iam also of the view thatsignificant weight should be given to their views for the reasons set outbelow. Sub-section 60CC(3)(b)  the nature of therelationship of the child with each of the childs parents and otherpersons(including any grandparent or other relative of the child) DrK said that the children appear to have a positive and secure relationship withtheir mother which has developed and strengthenedsince they have been livingindependently since separation. Dr K said that E appears to have thestrongest and most robust relationshipwith her mother and disengagement fromrelationship with her father. He said she was the child who, whilst most of thetime beingcompliant, defied her father in Egypt to greet and connect with hermother. He said that the boys have been more influenced by contextand adultpersuasion, shifting to the fathers side when with him in Egypt but thenshifting back when they reconnected withthe mother. Inrelation to the childrens relationship with their father Dr K saidthat overall they appeared disengaged from relationshipwith him. He said thatwhen discussing the children not having seen the father for some months, theirtone was more one of reliefthan that of grief. He said it was difficult forthem to come up with things that they missed about being with their father as itappeared that being with him had been difficult and had involved, particularlyE, working hard trying not to provoke the father butinevitably havinglittle accidents (E) which led to the father being angry andshouting. Dr Ksaid E described the father as mostly disengaged from the children, that hewould sit on the computer, be lazy or sleep. Hesaid that Js descriptionwas of disapproval rather than play or positive connection. Dr K said thatsuch description matchedthe description of the father as having spent hisworking life in Egypt too busy with work to find space for relationship. Dr Kalso said that such descriptions were also consistent withobservations by Dr S, the family doctor, about how the father relatedtothe children. Dr Ksaid that the fathers relationship with the mother and children made useof coercion and assertion of the paternal perspectivein order to achievedesired paternal objectives, rather than cooperation and listening to theperspectives of others. He said thatthis was seen in the fathersresponse to the anger of his son when the children were seen by Dr K. Thiswas that rather thanlisten and try to understand the children, the father usedtone, posture and content of speech to seek to coerce the child into analternative attitude. Significantlyin my view, Dr K said that the childrens current disengagement fromrelationship with their father was mostlyrelated to their own negativeexperience of that relationship, rather than any influence by their mother. Sub-section 60CC(3)(c)  the willingness and ability ofeach of the childs parents to facilitate, and encourage, a closeandcontinuing relationship between the child and the other parent Thefather informed Dr K that if the children were to live with him he wouldgive the mother contact with them at any time. Imust say, looking more broadly at past experiences, on the mothersaccount, in 2011 the father took the children from herby sending her to Egyptseparately then acting so as to have nothing to do with her. Upon thefamilys return to Australiathe mother found it necessary to obtain anAVO and then to obtain the assistance of the police and use the AVO to assisther to achievethe return of the children to her care because the father refusedto return them to her. In my view, this experience sits poorlywith thefathers assertions that he would provide the mother with contact with thechildren at any time. Onthe other hand, the mother has the very strong view that if the children were tohave a relationship with their father he is likelyto continue his long-standingpattern of violence against them and her and his long-standing pattern ofundermining the childrensrelationship with her. She wants desperatelyto be able to continue her life parenting the children with no involvement atall bythe father. Sub-section 60CC(3)(d)  the likelyeffect of any changes in the childs circumstances, including the likelyeffect onthe child of any separation from either of his or her parents or anyother child or other person (including any grandparent or otherrelative of thechild), with whom the child has been living AsDr K has said, the children appear to have a positive and securerelationship with their mother and a very poor relationship withtheir father. In these circumstances, in my view, any separation of the children from theirmother could be expected to cause themconsiderable grief and distress. Dr K said that a separation from their mother would be distressing anddevelopmentally disruptiveto the children. Onthe other hand, they have not spent any time with their father for in excess of28 months. On the accounts of the refuge officerMs A, officers of thechildrens school and Dr K, the children appear to have become settled. On Dr Ks report theyhave manifested a sense of relief from notbeing involved with their father and apparently the negative characteristics oftheirlife experiences with him. Dr Ksaid that a longer term separation from the father would likely entail somegrief at the loss of the family with which the childrenhave been accustomed. But he said that the fathers deficits and poor father-child relationshipsin this case are consistentwith his observation that the children appeared tofeel more relief than grief at the separation from their father. Dr Ksaid that a separation from the father would place more onus on the mother toprovide for the children. However, he said thatshe appeared to be rising tosuch a challenge. Sub-section 60CC(3)(e)  thepractical difficulty and expense of a child spending time with and communicatingwith a parentand whether that difficulty or expense will substantially affectthe childs right to maintain personal relations and directcontact withboth parents on a regular basis. Thisis not relevant. Sub-section 60CC(3)(f)  the capacityof each of the childs parents and any other person (including anygrandparent orother relative of the child) to provide for the needs of thechild, including emotional and intellectual needs. Dr Ksaid that when the parents were living together the mother was unable to meetthe childrens need to be protected fromabuse and exposure to familyviolence. He said the mother and children described the fathers verbaland physical aggressionand physical violence towards them as having been anongoing pattern of behaviour. Dr K said that since separation the motherisnow proactive in protecting the children and advocating for theirprotection. Hesaid that the mother demonstrates an ability to be warm and empathic to thechildren, to listen to them, and to determine and respondto their practical andemotional needs. He said that she meets their intellectual needs throughengaging with their school and assistingthem with learning and homework. Dr K said that whereas the mother appeared previously to have beendepressed as a consequence ofher home and family circumstances she does notcurrently appear to be depressed and her outlook in this regard is good whilesheis able to move forward with a new life separate from the difficulties ofher previous marital relationship. He said she has developedsince separationthe capacity to be strong, to set boundaries for the children and to providethem with security. He said she hasthe capacity to engage with extendedfamily, to make and keep family friends and to give her children space toexperiment with peerfriendships. Itis the case that the mother has suffered from thyroid cancer but the prognosisis very good. Dr R, an endocrinologist, has opinedthat there is a morethan 99 percent chance that the mothers cancer has been cured andwill not recur and that the motherslife expectancy and quality of lifeare expected to be normal. Onthe other hand I am satisfied that the father has perpetrated long-standing andongoing acts of verbal abuse and physical violenceagainst both the children andtheir mother. I am also satisfied that it is more probable than not that he hasacted inappropriatelytowards the children in a sexual sense as described above. Thefather had experienced lots of depression in the early years since migrating toAustralia and had seen a psychiatrist. Dr K saidthat in addition to thefathers use of physical and family violence he has had difficulty meetingthe childrens emotionalneeds because of his poor relational capacity. Ishall refer to this matter again below. Dr Ksaid that part of parental capacity in meeting a childs needs is anability to support the well-being and capacity ofthe other parent. He saidthat in his view the father has an entrenched attitude to women which isdisrespectful, and sexualised. He said that in addition the father shows aprofound disrespect for the capacity of the mother. Sub-section 60CC(3)(g)  the maturity, sex, lifestyleand background (including lifestyle, culture and traditions) of the childand ofeither of the childs parents, and any other characteristics of the childthat the court thinks are relevant. Dr Ksaid that the children were able to support their expressed view that they didnot wish to see their father by giving examplesof their experience of theirfather and to contrast that with their experience of their mother. Dr Ksaid this process suggestedreasonable cognitive processes were being used bythe children in forming their view. He said there was some emotional maturityin the childrens responses as they were looking beyond immediate comfortor gain to a broader sense of security and the absenceof violence or theimminent risk of violence. Section 60CC(3)(h)  if thechildis an Aboriginalchildor a Torres Strait Islander child:(i) the child'sright to enjoy his or her Aboriginalor Torres Strait Islander culture (including the right to enjoy thatculture with other people who share that culture); and (ii) the likely impactany proposed parentingorder under this Part will have on that right; Thisis not relevant. Sub-section 60CC(3)(i)  the attitudeto the child, and to the responsibilities of parenthood, demonstrated by each ofthe childsparents. Asreflected in Dr Ks report, the mother has been able to protect thechildren by leaving a situation of ongoing family violenceand inappropriatebehaviour by the childrens father. She has been able to settle thechildren and to provide adequately fortheir needs including in terms ofschooling. All reports from school, doctor, refuge officer and single expertare very favourablein terms of the mothers attitude to parentingresponsibility. Onthe other hand the father has perpetrated ongoing, regular, serious acts ofabuse and violence against the children and their mother. He has threatened tokill the mother and members of her family. Sub-section60CC(3)(j)  any familyviolence involving the childor a memberof the child'sfamily; Ihave referred to this matter in detail and shall refer to it againbelow. Sub-section 60CC(3)(k)  any familyviolence order that applies to the childor a memberof the child'sfamily, if: (i) the order is a final order; or (ii) the making ofthe order was contested by a person; Asmentioned above, there is a current AVO for the protection of the mother againstthe father made by the Local Court of New SouthWales on 10 February 2014. Its protections are quite comprehensive. It restrains the father fromassaulting, molesting, harassing,threatening or otherwise interfering with themother, from engaging in any other conduct that intimidates her, it restrainsthe fatherfrom stalking the mother. In its additional orders, it restrains thefather from going within 500 metres of any work premises ofthe mother or herresidence at T Street, Suburb U. It restrains the father from approaching orcontacting the mother by any meanswhatsoever, except through his legalrepresentative and it restrains the father from approaching the childrensschool or otherplace which the mother might from time to time attend for thepurposes of the childrens education, and specifically V PublicSchool. Sub-section 60CC(3)(l)  whether it would be preferableto make the order that would be least likely to lead to the institutionoffurther proceedingsin relation to the child Therehas been a long history of litigation between these parents, as referred to inthe outset of these Reasons. Iaccept the submission by learned counsel for the mother that the order whichwould be least likely to lead to the institution offurther proceedings is thatas proposed by the mother in her Application. Sub-section60CC(3)(m)  any other fact or circumstance that the courtthinks is relevant Thefather was convicted of common assault by the Local Court on 10 November2011. On appeal to the District Court on 1 June 2012the conviction wasconfirmed. SUB-SECTION 60CC(4) Sub-section60CC(4) of the Act requires the Court to consider the extent to which each ofthe parents has fulfilled his or her responsibilitiesas a parent and inparticular as specified in the sub-section. Itis clear that since separation the mother has not engaged the father indecision-making about the children. Nor has she facilitatedtheir spending anytime with him. But this has been in circumstances where she is fearful of himand how he might treat her andthe children, such fear having been developedagainst the background of serious domestic violence referred to above. Onthe other hand the father has not maintained the children, he being unemployedand on a disability pension. PRIMARY CONSIDERATIONS Asindicated above the first of the primary considerations is the benefit to thechild of having a meaningful relationship with bothof the childsparents. This, of course, has to be considered also in the context of theobjects of the legislation as referredto above. Whatis conveyed by meaningful in this context was considered by theFull Court of this Court in the case of McCall v Clarke [2009] FamCAFC 92; (2009) 41 Fam LR483. At page 510 the Full Court accepted as appropriate the interpretation ofmeaningful relationship set out by BrownJ in Mazorski vAlbright [2007] FamCA 520; (2007) 37 Fam LR 518. In that case her Honour said as follows at[26]: What these definitions convey is thatmeaningful, when used in the context of meaningfulrelationship,is synonymous with significant which, inturn, is generally used as a synonym for important or ofconsequence. I proceed on the basis that when considering the primaryconsiderations and the application of the object andprinciples, a meaningfulrelationship or a meaningful involvement is one which is important, significantand valuable to the child. It is a qualitative adjective, not a strictlyquantitive one. Quantitive concepts may be addressed as part of the process ofconsideringthe consequences of the application of the presumption of equallyshared parental responsibility and the requirement for time withchildren to be,where possible and in their best interests, substantial and significant. Inthe present case, unfortunately, the children do not have a meaningfulrelationship with their father. Dr K has made it clearthat in fact theyhave a very poor relationship with him. Dr K referred to some very seriousparenting deficits on the part of thechildrens father. He said that inhis view the father has a very poor relational capacity in terms of an abilityto listen,to respond empathically and flexibly, to communicate in a reciprocalway, to accept influence from another in balance to also assertingonesown perspective. Dr K said that such deficits may be partlyneuro-developmental, but likely mostly result from somehardship, deprivation ortrauma in the fathers upbringing. Hesaid that the father has compensated for these deficits with an idealised andnarcissistic view of self and relationship. Dr Ksaid that the father functionsreasonably when he has a defined role, which is powerful, superior, admired andproduces appreciation/obligation. This occurred when the father acted in aprofessional capacity, and when he did voluntary work for the communityagencies. In these settings, the father strives to, and manages to, live up tothe ideal, and is rewarded with acknowledgement. Dr Kgoes on to say that a marital and parent / child relationship is notconsistently compatible with an idealistic and narcissisticview of self andfamily. He said that when the father is not being appreciated or when theoutcomes of his efforts are uncertainor mundane, he becomes aggrieved andangry. He does not stop to reflect on his own role and problems, or to listento others. Hegets angry and blames outside forces. He has used physical abuseand perpetrated acts of family violence against both the childrenand theirmother. Dr Ksaid the father has difficulty meeting the childrens emotional needsbecause of his poor relational capacity. Dr K saidthat although he gavethe father a number of opportunities to do so, the father was not able toreflect on his own role in his relationalproblems. Dr Ksaid that part of a parent being able to meet a childs needs is anability to support the well-being and capacity of theother parent. He saidthat in his view the father has an entrenched attitude to women which isdisrespectful and sexualised. Hesaid that this was observed by him but alsodescribed by the mother, Dr S and to some extent the interpreter at the time heconductedthe interviews. He said that in addition the father showed a profounddisrespect for the mothers capacity. He said thatthis had become asomewhat self-fulfilling prophecy when the couple were together, as the motherbecame depressed and non-functional. He said that this contrasts with thefunction which the mother has discovered since leaving the relationship. Itis clear that the father has a very serious deficit in regard to not being ableto support the well-being and capacity of the childrensmother. In myview it is clear that he has used coercion, control, abuse, both verbal andphysical, including perpetrating actsof physical violence on her, as well asthreats to kill her and members of her family, and he has undermined herrelationship withthe children. Dr Kalso considered whether the fathers relational deficits might be able tobe improved by him undertaking a course of therapy. Dr K said that withregard to therapy, the fathers relationship deficits are long-standingand would not be fixedquickly or reliably with a course oftherapy. Dr K also said that even if the father was to become open toconsidering his vulnerabilitiesand wanted to change, Dr K remainedcautious about his capacity to change and he said that any change would belikely to requireprolonged time. He said that because of the relationaldifficulties between the children and their father he would not be optimisticabout this and considered it unlikely that there would be an improvement in therelationship between the children and their father. Thesecond of the primary considerations is the need to protect the child fromphysical or psychological harm from being subjectedto, or exposed to, abuse,neglect or family violence. Tragicallyfor these children, they have not been able to be protected from this untiltheir mother separated from their father. Their experience of their father isan experience punctuated by his anger, his verbal abuse, his actual violenceperpetrated regularlyagainst both them and their mother, his emotional abuse ofthe children and their mother and also in the case of the boys, someinappropriatesexual behaviour. Dr Ksaid that a fundamental need of a child is to be protected from abuse andexposure to family violence. Dr K also said that thechildren have a needto be protected from sexual abuse or inappropriate sexual behaviour. He saidthat if the Court was to findthat the father deliberately stimulated the boyssexually, which as indicated above he thought has likely occurred, then this isa significant concern which should result in curtailing of any contact until thechildren are well and truly capable of understandingand asserting appropriateboundaries. I shall refer to these matters again below. Onthe other hand Dr K said that the childrens mother, sinceseparation, had been able to protect the children from abuse andto be able tomeet their practical, emotional and intellectual needs. Wouldit be possible to frame orders which could achieve for the children a meaningfulrelationship with their father, or indeed anypositive relationship? Inmy view, this would be an impossible task. As Dr K has said, the children havea poor relationship with their father, such thatthey no longer wish to see himor have him participate in their lives. They are fearful of him and of what hemight do to them andto their mother. AsDr K has said, the father is unlikely to be able to address the deficits whichit would appear have been prominent in bringingabout this most unfortunatesituation for the children. Inmy view, if the Court was to endeavour to put in place some orders under whichthere might be even some limited opportunity forthe children to develop somefunctional relationship with their father, this would likely expose them to anunacceptable risk ofharm to them either directly or as a consequence of himcausing real injury, possibly even death, to their mother. Inall the circumstances, in my view, the respect which the Court must give to thesecond of the primary considerations, involvingas it does the protection of thechildren, in determining orders that are in their best interests, completelyoutweighs the possibilityof orders which would serve the first of the primaryconsiderations in terms of the children being able to have any ongoingmeaningfulrelationship with their father. Inmy view, such an outcome for these children is reinforced by a weighing of theadditional considerations. The children have themselvesarrived at views whichreflect the breakdown in their relationship with their father. Thefathers appalling and destructivebehaviour towards the children andtheir mother, his completely inappropriate attitude to parental responsibilityand his seriousrelational deficits all point to the best interests of thesechildren requiring orders which will support their ongoing strong functionalrelationship with their mother and which will protect them from thevulnerability and risk which would be involved if there was tobe somerequirement for contact or communication between them and their father. Suchan outcome is strongly supported by the Independent Childrens Lawyer asserving the best interests of the children. PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Asindicated above, the mother is seeking an order that she have the sole parentalresponsibility for the children. Parental responsibilityis defined bys 61B of the Act to mean all the duties, powers, responsibilitiesand authority which, by law, parents havein relation to children. TheCourt is to apply a presumption that it is in the childrens bestinterests for their parents to have equal shared parentalresponsibility forthem. This flows from s 61DA(1) of the Act because I shall be making aparenting order. However,pursuant to s 61DA(2) the presumption does not apply because I am satisfiedthat the father has engaged in abuse of the childrenand family violence. Inaddition, s 61DA(4) provides to the effect that the presumption may berebutted by evidence that satisfiesthe Court that it would not be in the bestinterests of the child for the parents to have equal shared parentalresponsibility forthe child. Ihave determined that it is not in the interests of these children to be spendingtime with, or having any communication with, theirfather. In thesecircumstances it is clear that the entirety of the parenting responsibility inrelation to these children willhave to be exercised by their mother as theironly properly functioning parent. In any event, the father has demonstratedvery clearlyto this Court that he has not been able to exercise appropriateparental responsibility, not only by his past behaviour, but alsoby choosingnot to participate in the hearing of these importantproceedings. CHANGE OF NAME AND PASSPORT AUTHORITY Asindicated above, the mother seeks authorisation to have the childrenssurnames registered in the register of Births, Deathsand Marriages in suchnames as she shall nominate and that this occur without obtaining thefathers consent. Themothers application in this regard is supported by the IndependentChildrens Lawyer. Muchconsideration has been given by this Court over many years to applicableprinciples governing a change of a childs surname. This considerationincludes that in Flanagan v Handcock (2001) FLC 93-047; George vRadford (1976) FLC 90-060; Chapman v Palmer (1978) FLC 90-510;Beach v Stemmler (1979) FLC 90-692; Kelley v Kelly (1981) FLC91-002; Skrabl v Leech (1989) FLC 92-016; Mahoney v McKenzie[1993] FamCA 78; (1993) FLC 92-408; Raymond v Harold [2009] FamCA 155; and Jordan &Lloyd and Ors [2010] FamCA 288. Itis clear from these authorities that decisions about the name by which a childis to be known are determined by the childsbest interests. The Court isto weigh the various relevant factors for and against any change. Inthe present case the mother is very fearful of the father as a consequence ofhis long-standing abuse and violence against herand the children, andparticularly his threats to kill her and members of her family. She has gone toconsiderable lengths to endeavourto ensure her protection and that of thechildren. In this regard I have referred to AVOs having been put inplace since2009 for their protection. The mother has changed her address andthe childrens school on four occasions in an endeavourto prevent thefather finding her and the children. On every occasion this has failed becausethe father has ascertained the familyswhereabouts within a short time ofthem moving, as he has ascertained the childrens school. The mother andchildren havethen experienced ongoing stalking by the father includingappearances by him in their street, at the childrens school andat theirlibrary. This behaviour has had the effect of intimidating the mother and thechildren. Itis the case that the children identify strongly with their mother, that theyhave a very close relationship with her and that sheis the parent now who hasdemonstrated that she is able to provide the children with protection andappropriate care. On the otherhand, the children have a very poor relationshipwith their father as I have said, and wish to have nothing further to do withhim. Itis also the case that Dr K recommended that if possible, while it would not bein the childrens interests to spend timewith their father, the father besent a six monthly update regarding the wellbeing of the children and theirprogress and that thefather be permitted to send cards to the children fromtime to time. Imust say in all the circumstances of this case, where the expert has recommendedthat it is not in the interests of these childrento have contact with theirfather and where it is unlikely that they will have any relationship with him inthe future, I cannotsee that there would be any benefit to these children inthe course proposed by Dr K. In my view, there would be considerablelikelydetriment in this because regular contact by way of cards would be likelyto be upsetting for the children and it would remind themof the many negativeaspects of their experience of living with their father. Inmy view, it would also be unlikely that the father would be able to communicatewith the children in an appropriate manner, giventhe deficits identified by DrK. In this regard, I note that Dr K observed that when the father and childrenwere in his interviewroom together, the father could not resist making a verbalattack on J. In my view, this speaks loudly about the fathersinabilityto act appropriately towards the children. One would have thought on such animportant occasion as the interview withhis children for the purposes of theseproceedings, the father would have been careful indeed not to upset thechildren. Itis difficult to see that regular bulletins by the mother to the father about thechildrens progress could have any benefitto the children. It would belikely to be upsetting for the mother to have to provide such material andunlikely to promote herparenting of the children. On a more worrying note, itmight be that it would be difficult to provide such reports without alsogivingthe father some clue about the current whereabouts of the family. So far as thefather being able to send material to thechildren is concerned, it would bedifficult to develop some way to achieve this without disclosing the whereaboutsof the children. Thefather has some history of depression. In his recent communication with theCourt it was said that he is struggling emotionallyand is seeing a clinicalpsychologist. This Court, in my view, must take his threats to kill the motherand members of her familyseriously. Inmy view, the extent of the fathers obsession with the mother is worrying.He has embarked on a course of intimidation towardsthe mother. This hasinvolved him stalking her and the children, threatening them and acting in a waycalculated to cause her fearand distress. He has made it difficult for themother to progress these proceedings to final trial. He has apparently informedthe Department of Transport, Roads and Maritime Services that the mother was notfit to hold a drivers licence because shereceived a letter from themanager of the relevant unit of the Department requesting her to undertake amedical examination to determineher medical fitness and competency to drive. Notwithstandingthe currency of various AVOs which included provision for the father to remainaway from the mother, not to harassher, not to interfere with her, not toengage in conduct that would intimidate her, not to stalk her and to remain awayfrom her,the father has appeared from time to time in close proximity to themother in what can only be concluded was a deliberate endeavourby him tointimidate her. He has behaved in a similar way towards the children which hascaused them to be fearful of him. Themother has made many complaints to the police about the fathers behaviourto the effect that he has been breaching theAVOs put in place to protecther and the children. She said the police response has been that there has beeninsufficientevidence to enable them to take action against the father. DrK has made it clear that these children have a need to feel secure within theirmothers care. He said that this need forsecurity, empathy andpredictability is heightened by the fact that they have experienced trauma. Dr K also said that all threechildren have some vigilance and intensity ofemotional arousal resulting from their experience of trauma, which makes themmorereactive to threat or perceived threat. Inall these circumstances, in my view, it is in the interests of these children tomake the orders which would enable the motherto change their names without anyresort to the father. Inrelation to the mothers application to be able to apply for replacementpassports for the children, in my view, similarconsiderations apply. Thechildren have no relationship with their father and their remaining childhoodyears will be solely inthe care of their mother. In my view, it would be intheir interests for the mother to be able to apply for replacement passportsforthem to enable her and them to travel overseas as they wish. Theremaining aspect of this is that in my view appropriate orders should be put inplace in the best interests of the children toensure there is no possibility oftheir father being able to remove them from Australia which would not be intheir interests forreasons which would be obvious from the abovereasons. COMMENCEMENT OF ORDERS Oftenin undefended proceedings I have considered it appropriate to suspend thecommencement of the orders for a short period afterservice of the orders on theabsent party and to provide such party with an opportunity to re-list theproceedings. Inthe present proceedings, however, I do not regard such a course to beappropriate. I am in no doubt that the father was fullyaware that theproceedings were to be heard commencing at 10:00 am on 17 February 2014. Heasked me to vacate the hearing datesthen appealed when I refused thisapplication. His appeal was dismissed. Then on 17 February 2014 he sent hisletter asking foran adjournment due to alleged ill health which Ideclined. Asindicated, I telephoned the father on 17 February 2014 and informed him of thelikely consequences if he failed to appear at courton the following day. Hedenied that I was speaking to him. Yet it is clear to me that this was anuntruth and I am confident thatthe person I was speaking with was the father. The father has been afforded the principles of natural justice. He has beendishonestin his dealings with this Court. I certify that the preceding one hundred and forty-nine (149) paragraphsare a true copy of the Reasons for Judgment of the HonourableJustice Johnstondelivered on 21 February 2014. Associate: Date: 21 February2014 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/85.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     