FAMILY LAW  EVIDENCE Single Expert  Valuation of husbands business interest where single expertappointed but husband seeks to tender report ofanother expert witness  where significant difference in valuation andmethodology substantial body of opinion contrary to opinion given bysingle expert  leave granted to tender report. Evidence Act 1995 (Cth) s 75 Family LawRules 2004 (Cth) rr 15.49, 15.65 Knight & Knight [2007]FamCA 263 Makita (Australia) Pty Ltd v Sprowles (2001) 52 NSWLR 705; [2001] NSWCA 305 Turnley & Turnley [2005] FamCA584 Wilde & Wilde [2007] Fam CA 1044 APPLICANT: Mr Padnall RESPONDENT: Ms Padnall INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: Legal Services Commission ofSA FILENUMBER: ADC 1244 of 2012 DATE DELIVERED: 23 October 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Adelaide PLACE HEARD: Adelaide JUDGMENT OF: Berman J HEARING DATE: 17 October 2014 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: Mr Jordan SOLICITOR FOR THE APPLICANT: Barnes Brinsley Shaw Lawyers COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENT: Mr McGinn SOLICITOR FOR THE RESPONDENT: David Burrell & Co COUNSELFOR THE INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: MrsLindsay SOLICITOR FOR THE INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: Legal Services Commission of SA ORDERS (1) Thatleave be granted to the applicant husband to tender into evidence the reports ofMr H, Chartered Accountant dated 14 October2013, 3 December 2013, 4 January2014 and 26 September 2014 and to adduce further evidence from him at the finalhearing of theseproceedings. IT IS NOTED that publication of this judgment by this Court underthe pseudonym Padnall & Padnall (No. 3) has been approved by theChief Justice pursuant to s 121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act 1975(Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT ADELAIDE FILE NUMBER:ADC 1244 of 2012 Mr Padnall Applicant And Ms Padnall Respondent REASONS FOR JUDGMENT INTRODUCTION Thetrial in respect of property issues is listed to commence on 1 December2014. On4 September 2014, I delivered reasons in respect of various outstanding interimapplications leaving paragraph 1 of the husbandsApplication in a Casefiled 7 February 2014 outstanding. Inthat application the husband seeks the following orders:- (1) That order1 of the orders sought in the Application in a Case filed by the husband on 16October 2013 be varied such that leavebe granted to the applicant husbandpursuant to Rule 15.49 of the Family Law Rules to tender the report of [Mr H],Chartered Accountant, dated 14 October 2013, 3 December 2013 and 4 January 2014and adduce furtherevidence from [Mr H] as required throughout these proceedingsas to the issue of the value to be attributed to the business currentlyconducted by [P] Pty Ltd, the business conducted by [B] Investments Pty Ltd andthe applicant husbands interest in each ofand either of thosecompanies. Ido not propose to repeat at length the background set out in my reasons forjudgment delivered on 4 September 2014. Whatis in issue is the value of the husbands interest in the businessconducted by P Pty Ltd from about 1 July 2012. Formerlythe husband operatedthe business by K Pty Ltd as trustee of the K Padnall Family Trust. EXPERT REPORTS MsJ from F Accountants was ultimately engaged as a single expert forensicaccountant to undertake the valuation of the husbandsinterest in histradesman business. The order was made on 15 May 2013. Thefirst valuation report was published by Ms J on 26 August 2013 with a value ofthe K Padnall Family Trust at $183,210. It isnot controversial that thehusband thereafter instructed a shadow accountant namely Mr H. Byletter dated 16 September 2013, the husbands solicitors forwardedquestions to the single expert in accordance with Rule 15.65 (1) (2) and (3) ofthe Family Law Rules 2004 (Cth) (the Rules). In particular thefollowing questions have some enduring relevance:- (1) Paragraph2.3 You state that the business has no good will yet you attribute a value to thebusiness. Goodwill is usually defined as the differencebetween the value ofthe business as a whole and the net tangible business employed in the business. How do you reach the conclusionthat there is no goodwill and then attribute avalue to the business? (2) Valuation You have assessed the value of the business to be $183,210. Of this sum, howmuch relates to the tangible assets employed in thebusiness and how much toother intangible assets. If there is no goodwill, what does the sum of $183,210represent? (5) Adjusted earnings calculation  wages The wage expense in 2013 relates to the husband. This has been added back butno amount has been allowed to reflect the notionalsalary of the husband in anyof the years in respect of which the adjusted earnings have been calculated. Doyou agree that thevaluation of an enterprise/business should be based onadjusted earnings after allowing for a notional or commercial salary for theduties performed by the husband. If you do, do you then agree the valuationassessment as incorrect in that an allowance shouldhave been made. If you donot agree a notional salary should be allowed for in-value in the business, thenwhy not? Byletter dated 20 September 2013, the single expert answered the questions and asa result made two adjustments namely, the removalof a proportional depreciationallowance on the basis that the motor vehicle was used 100 per cent for thebusiness and an add-backof hire purchase expenses. This had the effect ofreducing the maintainable earnings from $183,210 to$177,282. Thereply reflects an assertion by the single expert that:- The business does however have the capacity to generate maintainable earnings of$177,282 (adjusted from $183, 210) based on an assessmentof net profits from2010 to the cessation of [K] Pty Ltd as trustee for the K Padnall] Family Trustas at 30 June 2012. Furthermore,it is asserted that:- The sum of $183,210 (adjusted from $177,282)is the maintainable earnings of the business. Itis said by the single expert that:- This amount represents the valueof the business with no associated goodwill. It is purely the amount that canbe generated in annualmaintainable earnings. This is in essence theowners wage. Underthe heading of Adjusted Earnings Calculation  Wages the followingis recorded:- The 2010  2012 financial statements were notadjusted for a notional salary as there is no goodwill in the business and henceany profit would effectively would be a notional salary to the owner. It should be noted that in our opinion the 2013 financial statements presentan unrealistic view of maintainable earnings as outlinedin section 2.2 of thevaluation report. Finally,under the heading of Balance Sheet the following isrecorded:- Net assets on the balance sheet as at 30 June 2012 were$20. As outlined in the valuation report, given that the business is notcomplex and is largely in business to supply few customers and is run by oneowner we have determined the goodwill of the businessis nil. The net asset method is primarily used to value businesses where the businessis asset intensive. As this business is not capitalintensive and the value ofthe balance sheet was $20, we considered other valuation methods to beinappropriate. In our professionalopinion, the maintainable earningsmethodology is the most accurate means to value the business, as outlined insection 5.4 of thevaluation report. Thefirst report of Mr H was published on 14 October 2013. The report purports tobe a critique of the report of Ms J at paragraph 3.4 thefollowing is recorded by Mr H:- What is being valued while [F Accountants] were instructed to value the business, at paragraph 2.1 oftheir report, they state they were instructedto value thegoodwill. In my opinion, goodwill may only form a part of thevalue of the business. A business generallycomprises tangible and intangibleassets  the intangible assets are usually encapsulated into a valuereferred to as goodwillwith the balance of the net assets of the business beingthe net tangible business assets. The value of the entity then brings toaccount surplus or non-operating assets and liabilities. Then under the heading of Value of Goodwill, the following is recorded [F Accountants] state they were instructed to value the goodwill(paragraph 2.1). At paragraph2.3 [F Accountants] state they have determinedthere is no goodwill in the [tradesman] business due to the reliance of thebusinesson the personal efforts of the owner to generate the revenue. 3.1.4 Despite having concluded that they were instructed to value thegoodwill of the business and having concluded that the businesshas no goodwill,they conclude the business has a value of $183,210. 3.1.5 In their response to a question seeking a reconciliation between thevalue of the business and the value of the goodwill (referannexure 5) [FAccountants] state that the maintainable earnings of the business represents thevalue of the business with no associatedgoodwill. In section 2 of theirresponding letter they go on to say that the annual maintainable earnings isin essence isthe owners wage. 3.1.6 In my opinion an owners wage does not represent the value of thebusiness. 3.1.7 An owners wage represents the return from personal exertion andreflects what the person would earn if employed on anarms-length basis. Thevalue of an income stream is based on maintainable earnings after allowing foran owners wage. Itis the extra income that flows from the business andits structure, gearing off staff and return on other assets (as applicable).Further, [Mr H] argues that in his opinion it is unlikely the business issaleable presumably because there is no goodwill, a negligiblebalance sheet andby necessary implication no return on investment. On27 August 2014, Ms J published a further report as to the value of thehusbands interest in his business with a slightlyrevised valuationoutcome of $154,908 up to an including the financial year ending 30 June2013. Furtherquestions were forwarded to the single expert arising out of a fourth report byMr H dated 26 September 2014. Questionsput to the single expert have not been answered arising from the husbandsunwillingness to provide the further disbursementcost as requested. Itis argued on behalf of the husband that the methodology adopted by the singleexpert in the three reports as published by her andin the four reports asprovided by Mr H to the husband has remained consistent. In summary, thequestions raised and the answersgiven at first instance maintain theirrelevance in terms of the differing views of the single expert and Mr H to thepresent. SUBMISSIONS MADE BY THE PARTIES Counselfor each of the parties have prepared concise and well-crafted submissiondocuments. Itis argued on behalf of the husband that:- The fundamental disputebetween the valuers is methodology  the writer again refers toSmith where the application was refused primarily because there was nodispute as to methodology. It is submitted that Mr H adopts a methodology which can be categorised asvalue to the owner. It is argued that the methodology of MsJ is unheard of in that it is not able to be reconciled with the five basicvaluationmethodologies as referred to in Wilde & Wilde [2007]Fam CA 1044. In summary, the principal criticism appears to be that a futuremaintainable earnings based valuation should account for a proprietorswage on the basis that it is the surplus which then properly represents thepotential return for an investor and is the basis forgoodwill. Where there is no goodwill evident or where itmight be considered that the business was only marginally commercially viable,adefault position is to consider a valuation by reference to the net assetposition of the business. Thewife argues that Mr H does not identify a substantial body of opinion contraryto the opinion given by the single expert, nordoes he disclose matters whichare not known to the single expert and therefore necessary to determine thequestion of value of theinterest the husband has in the business. Itis said that there is nothing special or different in respect of the method andmanner by which the single expert has approachedthe valuation exercise and thatin any event it is not simply a matter of a different ultimate result whichsatisfies the necessarycriteria. It is for the Court to determine matters ofvalue notwithstanding it may be assisted by the evidence of a singleexpert. Further,even if I were to be satisfied that one of the grounds under Rule 15.49 (2) (a) (c) was established, that I should not exercise my discretion takinginto account the potential for prejudice tothe wife arising from thehusbands behaviour, but in particular his initial non-disclosure and theresultant consequence tothe proceedings. Itis strongly argued on behalf of the wife that the present case is not one ofdifferent methodologies but different outcome. RELEVANT LAW TheRules dealing with expert evidence to be found in Part 15.5 of the Rules, and inparticular Rule 15.41 to 15.70. Part 15 hasas its core purpose to ensure thatthe parties obtain expert evidence only in relation to a significant issue indispute, to restrictexpert evidence to that which is necessary to resolve ordetermine a case and to ensure that if practicable and without compromisingtheinterests of justice, expert evidence is given on an issue by a single expertwitness and to avoid unnecessary costs from theappointment of more than onewitness. Rule15.43 of the Family Law Rules sets out the relevant definitions. In particularan expert is defined to be independent person who has relevantspecialized knowledge, based upon the persons training, study orexperience. HeydonJA in Makita (Australia) Pty Ltd v Sprowles (2001) 52 NSWLR 705; [2001]NSWCA 305 provided an analysis of the authorities in respect of expert evidenceas follows:- In short, if evidence tendered as expert opinionevidence is to be admissible, it must be agreed or demonstrated that there is afieldof specialised knowledge, there must be an identifiedaspect of the field in which the witness demonstrates that by reason ofspecified training, studyor experience, the witness has become an expert; theopinion proffered must be wholly or substantially based on the witnesses expertknowledge; so far as the opinion is based on fact observed by the expert, theymust be identified and admissibly proved by the expert,and so far as theopinion is based on assumed or accepted facts, they must be identified andproved in some other way; it must beestablished that the facts on which theopinion is based form a proper foundation for it and the opinion of an expertrequires demonstrationor examination of the scientific or other intellectualbasis of the conclusions reached, that the experts evidence must explain howthefield of specialised knowledge in which the witness is expert by reason oftraining, study or experience and on which the opinionis wholly orsubstantially based applies to the facts assumed or observed so as to producethe opinion propounded. Rule15.59 requires that the expert witness be independent and that the duty of theproposed witness is a duty to the Court and goes beyondany duty to aparty. Iam satisfied that to the extent there is any issue as to the appropriate levelof qualification, experience or knowledge of Ms Jor Mr H, they are bothqualified to give expert evidence. Themost contentious area in respect of expert evidence arises from the inability ofa party to tender a report or adduce evidencefrom another expert witness if asingle expert witness has been appointed whether jointly by the parties or orderof the Court. Such separate adversarial evidence can be called only with theCourts permission as provided for in Rule 15.49. Rule 15.49 (2) providesthree exceptions to the tendering of further evidence from another expertwitness on an issue already addressed by asingle expert witness:- If there is asubstantial body of opinion contrary to any opinion given by the single expertwitness and that the contrary opinionis or may be necessary for determining theissue. If anotherexpert witness knows of matters not known to the single expert witness, that maybe necessary for determining the issue. If there isanother special reason for adducing evidence from another expertwitness. Adifficulty arises in respect of how the substantial body of contraryopinion is established before the Court. It cannot be the evidenceof the second expert (which is what the application is seekingleave to adduce)and so can only be on the basis of information and belief taking into accountSection 75 of the Evidence Act 1995 (Cth). Asubstantial body of contrary opinion cannot be satisfied by reliance on theinformation, belief or the view of a second expert butmust be held by multipleexperts. Therehas been a level of judicial discord in respect of the requirements of Rule15.49 (2). Inthe unreported decision of Turnley & Turnley [2005] FamCA 584 being adecision of Dawe J delivered 20 June 2005, her Honour found when considering theaffidavit material presentedthat:- There is nothing in theaffidavit material before me nor in the submissions before me that couldpossibly fall within Sub-Rules (a)or (b) of Rule 15.49 (2). Thequestion remains whether there is any another specialreason for adducing evidence from another expert witness. It isoften the case that a party does not like the valuation of the singleexpert andhas obtained a valuation which is different in its outcome. If that aloneestablishes a special reason then it wouldmake the actual provisions of Rule15.49 meaningless in relation to real estate and other valuations. Indeed,it is argued on behalf of the wife that there is effectively no differencebetween the methodology adopted by Ms J and MrH and that what is at issue isthe husbands displeasure with the valuation of the single expert, hencehe seeks to rely upona valuation that produces a more palatable outcome. InKnight & Knight [2007] FamCA 263 Bryant CJ took into accountthe fact that the parties had spent a large amount on legal fees and accountingfees and having regardto the size of the asset pool, Her Honour held thatpermission should be granted to adduce separate adversarial evidence on thebasisthat:- The costs of theexpert witness for the wife would initially be borne by her and the husband wasnot at risk in costs unless the wifesevidence materially affected thevaluation of the single expert. The wifesproposed expert had already done a good deal of work as a shadow expert and sothere would be no great delay in thewife obtaining a report from him; and The case had notbeen reached and would therefore not be heard for the next fewweeks. Therewere significant issues in dispute which might impact upon the valuation and herHonour considered that there would be a miscarriageof justice if the wife wasnot given an opportunity to explore those issues. Itis argued that this is not a case of differing methodology but rather one oftechnical difference and application. Obviously,whether there is goodwill that attaches to the business is a factor that candramatically alter the valuation outcome. The fact that there is no goodwill asa finding by each of the valuers is not indicative of similarity but rather, anindicatorof the divergent approach of each of them. The position of the singleexpert is that there is no goodwill component in the businessvaluation and thattherefore a different valuation approach is to be adopted which is based uponthe ability of the business to generatean income for the owner, presumably fromone year to the next. It is not suggested that it is a future income basedapproach butrather, a recitation of the objective fact that in any particularfinancial year under consideration, the business has generatedincome. MrH determines that the business has no goodwill arising out of an assessment thatthe business having effectively a single or solesource of income, is notconducive to a finding that goodwill exists. He also argues that the lack ofregard to a proprietorswage is a fundamental flaw. Theposition then adopted by Mr H is to consider a net tangible asset valuationapproach. Thereare clear differences in the methodology adopted by each of the experts. Itcould not be said that the methodology proposed by Mr H is unusual or not atleast open for consideration. It could not be saidthat the single expert has ineffect covered the field by the approach she has adopted leaving no room forother considerations. EXERCISE OF DISCRETION Itis submitted on behalf of the wife that even if I were to find that there is asubstantial body of opinion contrary to any opinion given by thesingle expert witness that I should not exercise my discretion to doso. Itis clear from the Court file that the husband initially proceeded by way ofnon-disclosure in respect of the manner in which heoperated the business. Whilstultimately it may well be argued that significant delay and costs have beenincurred as a result of the husbands non-disclosure,it would appear thatneither the single expert nor Mr H would have reached a different outcome inparticular in respect of theirrespective methodologies as adopted by each ofthem, if the husband had made all necessary disclosures. Eachof the experts have provided multiple reports and whilst there has been someadjustment to the final outcome, it could not besaid that there has been anysubstantial deviation from the underlying approach adopted by each of them. Thewife argues that there will be no delay in the reporting process given that bothvaluers have already completed their reports,that the trial will have littleimpact on the extra evidence likely to be adduced from Mr H and it is unlikelythat either of theparties will seek further or other valuation evidence. Itmay be argued that the husband did not properly exhaust his remedies pursuant tothe Rules in respect of questions to be askedand answered of the single expert.Whilst I accept that the last round of questions whilst formulated were notanswered (with nocriticism of the single expert) I am satisfied that questionspreviously administered and answered represent a consistent positionthat thesingle expert has adopted. In short, if the single expert had been invited toprovide an answer to the questions as currentlyformulated, her answers wouldnot have been significantly different from her earlier response. Itis also a relevant factor that over and above the former matrimonial home, theissue of the valuation of the business is centralto the proceedings. CONCLUSION Inall the circumstances I consider that this is not a case where there is simply aholding of different opinions but rather, thereare clear and obviousdifferences in the methodology to be adopted by each of the valuers and that theCourt would be significantlyassisted by the evidence both from the singleexpert Ms J and Mr H. Itis acknowledged that it is always open to a trial judge to hear the evidence andif still left unassisted at the conclusion ofcross examination, the trial canbe adjourned and another expert report ordered. That option in this case hassignificant disadvantages,particularly where the consequential effect ofallowing the proposed evidence on the proceedings isbenign. Imake orders as set out at the commencement of these reasons. Icertify that the preceding fifty six (56) paragraphs are a true copy of thereasons for judgment of the Honourable Justice Bermandelivered on 23 October2014. Associate: Date: 23 October 2014 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/904.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 