FAMILY LAW  PROPERTY  interimapplication to join company to proceedings  where the husband seeksorders thatthe wife return to him certain objects of value  where thewife is a US citizen  where the wife contributed significantcapital tothe company  where the husband is a sole director of the company where the company owes the wife money where it is ordered that thecompany is joined to the proceedings  where the husband is prevented frompursuing similarproceedings in the Supreme Court. Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) APPLICANT: Ms Southwell FIRST RESPONDENT: Mr Fadley SECONDRESPONDENT: W Pty Limited (ACN ...) FILENUMBER: SYC 2196 of 2014 DATE DELIVERED: 17 October 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Sydney PLACE HEARD: Sydney JUDGMENT OF: Stevenson J HEARING DATE: 3 September 2014 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: Mr Sirtes SC SOLICITOR FOR THE APPLICANT: Swaab Attorneys COUNSEL FOR THE FIRST RESPONDENT: Mr White SOLICITOR FOR THE FIRST RESPONDENT: Hudson Law Pty Limited COUNSEL FOR THE SECOND RESPONDENT: Mr White SOLICITOR FOR THE SECOND RESPONDENT: Hudson Law Pty Limited ORDERS (1) ThatW Pty Ltd (ACN ...) be joined as a party to these proceedings. (2) That the husband and W Pty Ltd be restrained by injunction from prosecutingproceedings No ... in the Supreme Court of NSW againstthe wife pending thefinal determination of all proceedings in SYC 2196/2014 in the Family Courtof Australia at Sydney. (3) That the wife within 14 days file and serve an affidavit which sets outprecisely which items listed in paragraph 2 of the husbandsResponse toan Application in a Case filed 2 September 2014 are currently in her possessionand control and the full extent of herknowledge of the whereabouts of theremaining items. IT IS NOTED that publication of this judgment by this Court underthe pseudonym Southwell & Fadley and Anor has been approved by theChief Justice pursuant to s 121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act 1975(Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT SYDNEY FILE NUMBER:SYC 2196 of 2014 Mr Southwell Applicant And Mr Fadley First Respondent And W Pty Limited (ACN ...) Second Respondent REASONS FOR JUDGMENT The Proceedings Theseproceedings concern settlement of property between Mr Fadley and Ms Southwell. They were parties to a de facto relationshipwhich subsisted between1999/2000 and October 2012. On22 July 2014, the de facto wife (the wife) filed anApplication in a Case, by which she sought inter alia ordersasfollows: ... That[W] Pty Ltd ACN ... be joined as a party to these proceedings. Thatthe applicant and [W Pty Ltd] be restrained by injunction from prosecutingproceedings no ... in the Supreme Court of NSW againstthe respondentpending the final determination of all proceedings in SYC 2196/2014 in theFamily Court of Australia at Sydney. Thatthe applicant and [W Pty Ltd] sign all documents and do all things reasonablynecessary to effect a stay of the proceedings ...in the Supreme Court of NSWpending the final determination in proceedings in SYC 2196/2014 in the FamilyCourt of Australia at Sydney. Byhis Response, the de facto husband (the husband) sought adismissal of the wifes Application in a Case. Inthe alternative, hesought orders to the following effect: Thatthe wife return certain listed items said to be the property of the company [WPty Ltd]. That[W Pty Ltd] be permitted to continue to prosecute its claim in the Supreme Courtof NSW. Thatthe wife file and serve within 14 days an affidavit which sets out thecircumstances whereby any listed items are no longer inher possession orcontrol. Thatthe wife identify any amendments, variations or additions which she has made toany physical or electronic files of [W Pty Ltd]since 24 January2014. Background Thewife was born in 1953 in the United States and is currently aged 60 years. Thehusband was born in 1958 and is presently aged56 years. The wife is a citizenof the United States and travels to Australia on a regular basis by way of atourist visa. Sheis neither a citizen nor a permanent resident ofAustralia. Thewife contended that she had assets of approximately $15,000,257 at thecommencement of the relationship and earned an income ofUS $7,986,445 in thetax year ending 2000. She maintained that the husband had assets of littlevalue at the start of the de factorelationship. InJanuary 2002, the parties purchased a business in partnership with Mr G. Thisconsisted of a Type A collectables business knownas Business Band a media business called Business C. Mr G purchased his shareof the business via acompany known as D Pty Ltd. The nameBusiness B was changed to Business E in February2002. Thepurchase price for the business was $500,000, which was contributed equally bythe wife and D Pty Ltd. Apparently the husbandmade no contribution to thepurchase money. InAugust 2002, the wife purchased in the joint names of the parties an apartmentat Property F, which is situated at G Street, SuburbH. The purchase price was$4,000,000, which consisted of the wifes funds of $1,312,122 and amortgage advance of $2,800,000from the National Australia Bank. Atthe time of the purchase of this apartment, the wife opened a joint account withthe husband for the purpose of paying mortgageand utility costs in respect ofthe property. The wife maintained that she transferred funds from her UnitedStates account to meetmortgage repayments, outgoings in respect of theapartment and the living expenses of the parties. She claimed that the husbandmade no contribution to these costs. Accordingto the wife, the husband was responsible for the day to day operations of thebusiness and received remuneration from itsincome after 30 June 2006. Shereceived a payment of $40,000 from the business only as an overseas consultantin 2006 and 2007. The wife commutes between Australia and the United States ona monthly basis. Thewife maintained that she contributed capital to the business in a total amountof $580,000 between 23 January 2002 and 22 June2005. This amount was half ofthe necessary start up capital with the balance being paid by DPty Ltd. InMarch 2004, the wife paid $300,000 to acquire the interest of Mr G in thebusiness. Until this time, the wife and the husbandeach held a 25 percent interest in the partnership and the remaining 50 per cent was held byD Pty Ltd. On25 May 2004, the wife established a line of credit secured over the Property Fapartment in an amount of $200,000. In August 2004,she increased the amount to$900,000 by transferring a sum of $710,227 from her United States account to theNational Australia Bankmortgage facility. The wife again increased the amountto $1.450 million on 22 June 2007. She claimed that she did so because thehusband exceeded the previous limit of $900,000. On1 July 2005, the parties caused the incorporation of the company, W Pty Ltd. The wife and the husband held 75 per cent and 25per cent of theshareholding respectively and they each were directors. Thewife maintained that the husbands management of the business began tocause her concern from about 2008. In particular,she claimed that he incurredextravagant expenses; failed to pay vendors and retained for hisown benefit Type A collectablespurchased by W Pty Ltd. InMarch 2008, the company was unable to pay the sum of $1,318,995 to a vendor. The wife refinanced the mortgage on the PropertyF apartment and reduced theline of credit to $100,000. Two weeks later she again refinanced the mortgageto an amount of $3,500,000and transferred total sums of approximately $770,000to an unpaid vendor. InJune 2010, the wife resigned as a director of W Pty Ltd. In June 2011, shetransferred her 75 per cent shareholding in the companyto thehusband. InJanuary 2012, the wife sold the Property F apartment. She claimed that shereceived no funds from this sale after discharge ofthe mortgage, line of creditand a US margin loan account. Thewife claimed that the husband was uncontactable between 26 February 2012 and 17May 2013 and again between the end of July 2013and March 2014. On his ownevidence, the husband had no involvement with the company between August 2013and February 2014. InDecember 2013, the wife attended the companys office premises. Sheclaimed that she went through everything at theoffice to evaluate thecompanys assets and determine how best to vacate the office. Thewife alleged further thatshe discovered certain boxes in the office whichcontained approximately $2 million worth of Type A collectable material. On thehusbands admission, the company owes the wife approximately$1 million. Thewife proceeded to pack the contents of the office, some of which she caused tobe delivered to the husband. She placed the TypeA collectable material worthapproximately $2,000,000 in a safe location. A number ofdocuments are currently held by the wifes solicitors at their office(exhibit 40 to the wifesaffidavit). On11 April 2014, the husband commenced the present proceedings. On 30 June 2014,he caused the company to file a Statement of Claimin the Supreme Court of NSW,by which he sought certain relief against the wife. Consideration (1) Joinder of W Pty Ltd to theseproceedings Thehusband is the sole shareholder and director of the company, W Pty Ltd. It isthus unarguable that the husband has full controlof the company and that it ishis alter ego. Thehusbands own evidence was that the company owes a debt in the order of$1,000,000 to the wife. The husband did not appearto dispute the wifescontention that she injected large amounts of money into the businessesconducted by the company. Thewife contends that the husband used funds which she made available to thecompany to acquire Type A collectables for his own benefitand to meet hispersonal expenses. Primafacie, therefore, it appears that there has been substantial intermingling offunds of the husband, the wife and the company. These issues inevitably will beexplored in the proceedings for alteration of property interests between thehusband and the wifein this jurisdiction. Anotherissue in these proceedings will be the value of the husbands shareholdingin W Pty Ltd. Part of that exercise willbe a determination whether variousType A collectables material is beneficially owned by the husband or thecompany. One possiblecomponent of the outcome of these proceedings may be anorder that the husband transfer part or all of his shareholding in the companyto the wife. Forall of these reasons, it seems to me to be appropriate that W Pty Ltd be joinedas a respondent to these proceedings. (2) Restraint on the husband and W Pty Ltd prosecutingproceedings against the wife in the Supreme Court of NSW Inthe Supreme Court of NSW proceedings the company seeks, by way of substantiverelief, orders that the wife return various itemsto the company or provide anexplanation as to their present whereabouts. The company also seeks against thewife damages in detinue. In these proceedings, the husband seeks orders for thereturn to him of various items described as collectables andpersonal items and payment to him of a cash sum of $920,000. Thewifes dealings with the business, after the parties separation, isan issue which legitimately can be consideredin the context of thecontributions of the parties in these proceedings. It thus seems to me that thesubstance of the companysclaim for damages against the wife will bedealt with as an integral part of the resolution of the dispute in thisjurisdiction. Thecompanys claim in the Supreme Court of NSW for orders that the wifereturn certain chattels to the company can be dealtwith in this jurisdiction. That course is certainly open to both the husband and the company after itsjoinder as a respondent. Inmy view, the husband should never have caused the company to initiateproceedings against the wife in the Supreme Court of NSW. I consider that thereshould now be an injunction to restrain the company from continuing to prosecuteits claim in the SupremeCourt of NSW. There is, in practical terms, aduplication of proceedings. The reality at all times has been that the there isadispute between the husband and the wife. Additionally,the business appears not to have traded since the husband ceased involvement andthe wife closed the office in December2013. The husband offered no evidence asto any plan to resume business operations by the company in a constructivemanner. Insummary, it seems to me that the relief sought by W Pty Ltd in the Supreme Courtproceedings can be pursued in this jurisdictiononce the company is joined as aparty. I will restrain the company and the husband from prosecuting litigationagainst the wifein the Supreme Court so as to avoid a duplication ofproceedings. (3) Return of items Thewife disputed that she has possession of certain items listed in thehusbands Response to her Application in a Case. Itseems to me to bepointless that there be an order which requires the wife to return items whichare not in her possession or control. I will order that the wife file and servean affidavit which sets out precisely which items are in her possession orcontrol andprovide as much information as possible as to the whereabouts of theremaining items. I certify that the preceding thirty five (35)paragraphs are a true copy of the reasons for judgment of the Honourable JusticeStevensondelivered on 17 October 2014. Associate: Date: 17 October 2014 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/881.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                