FAMILY LAW  CHILDABDUCTION  Hague convention  Application adjourned Family Law (Child Abduction Convention) Regulations 1986 Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) APPLICANT: State Central Authority  Department Of Human Services RESPONDENT: Mr Castillo FILENUMBER: MLC 7561 of 2014 DATE DELIVERED: 3 September 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Melbourne PLACE HEARD: Melbourne JUDGMENT OF: Cronin J HEARING DATE: 3 September 2014 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: Ms Fedele SOLICITOR FOR THE APPLICANT: State Central Authority, Department of HumanServices THE RESPONDENT: In person ORDERS THATleave is granted to the applicant to proceed ex parte with orders interms of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of the application filed on 27 August2014. THATthe application be adjourned for further hearing on 10 September 2014 at9:00am. THATthe applicant effect service of the application and this Order on the respondentfather as soon as practicable. THATin the event that the respondent father has been served with the application bythe adjourned date: (a) he file andserve an affidavit in response to the application indicating his defence to theapplication no later than 10 September2014; (b) he file andserve a Notice for Address for Service; and (c) he attendCourt personally on 10 September 2014 at 9:00am and remain at Court pendingfurther order of the Court. THATuntil further order, the respondent father, his servants or agents be restrainedby injunction from causing or permitting orsuffering the children L born... March 2001, B born ... January 2005 and Y born ... June 2008(the children): to beremoved from the Commonwealth of Australia, and in this regard all officers ofthe Australian Federal Police be directed toenforce, if required, theprovisions of such order; to beremoved from the State of Victoria; or toreside at any address other than their present residential address or any otherresidence at which the applicant has agreed thatthe children reside THATthe Australian Federal Police place the names of the children on the AirportWatch List in force at all points of arrival anddeparture in the Commonwealthof Australia and maintain the childrens names on the Airport Watch Listuntil further orderof the Court. THATthe respondent father, his servants or agents forthwith deliver up to theRegistrar of the Family Court of Australia at Melbournefor safe custody any andall passports held in the names of the children or upon which the childrenappear and be restrained fromapplying for any further or other passports forthe children pending further orders of this Court. THATa sealed copy of these Orders be provided forthwith to the Marshal of the FamilyCourt of Australia, the Commissioner of theAustralian Federal Police and theSecretary of the Commonwealth Department of Foreign Affairs andTrade. IT IS NOTED that publication of this judgment by this Court underthe pseudonym State Central Authority & Castillo has been approved bythe Chief Justice pursuant to s 121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act 1975(Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT MELBOURNE FILE NUMBER:MLC 7561 of 2014 State CentralAuthority, Department Of Human Services Applicant And Mr Castillo Respondent REASONS FOR JUDGMENT Thisis an application under the Family Law (Child Abduction Convention) Regulations1986 filed by the State Central Authority on the request of the mother ofchildren who, on the face of the documents, would appear tonormally live in NewZealand but who also are citizens of that country. The facts seems relativelysimple in that the father cameto Australia apparently in about 2012 and byagreement the mother brought the children to Australia it would seem ostensiblyfora holiday in early 2013 and then returned to New Zealand and made a requestthat the father return them but he refused. Thereis a rather unusual statement that the requesting mother completed the arrivalcards in Australia indicating that the childrenwere migrating permanently sothat the father could receive Centrelink benefits. Whatever that means no doubtwill be fleshed outbut the mother now says that her intention was to indicatethat the children were only coming here for a holiday. Needless to say,theapplication triggers the requirements under the Convention. This is anappropriate matter to proceed to make the usual proceduralorders and injunctionagainst the father from removing the children, bearing in mind he shouldunderstand that he has obligationsin relation to the children as well includingthe fact that they would normally be resident in New Zealand. Onthat basis, I will make orders in the usual terms, adjourning the matter to 9oclock on 10 September 2014, usual injunctionsin relation to placing thechildren on the airport watch list system and requiring the father to filematerial, if possible, by nextWednesday. I certify that thepreceding three (3) paragraphs are a true copy of the reasons for judgment ofthe Honourable Justice Cronin deliveredon 3 September2014. Associate: Date: 22 October 2014 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/906.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    