FAMILY LAW  CHILD ABUSE  Allegation sexual abuse  where the facts do not support a positive findingofabuse having occurred  where the facts do not support a positivefinding that abuse did not occur. FAMILY LAW  CHILDREN With whom a child lives  where it is in the childs best intereststo live with themother  where the child spends graduating supervisedtime with the father for two years. Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) Evidence Act1995 (Cth) B & B (1988) FLC91-978 Briginshaw v Briginshaw [1938] HCA 34; (1938) 60 CLR 336 M v M (1988) 166 CLR 69 APPLICANT: Ms Bailey RESPONDENT: Mr Thornton INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: LBK Solicitors FILENUMBER: NCC 3248 of 2009 DATE DELIVERED: 14 October 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Canberra PLACE HEARD: Newcastle JUDGMENT OF: Faulks DCJ HEARING DATE: 29 September - 2 October 2014 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: Mr Moutasallem SOLICITOR FOR THE APPLICANT: Cole & Butler Solicitors COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENT: Mr Bates SOLICITOR FOR THE RESPONDENT: Webb & Boland Solicitors COUNSELFOR THE INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: MrGorton SOLICITOR FOR THE INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: LBK Solicitors ORDERS (1) Allprior parenting orders are discharged. (2) The mother have sole parental responsibility for Y (thechild), born ... September 2008. (3) The child live primarily with her mother. (4) Notwithstanding the provisions about sole parental responsibility the motherwill authorise and direct that any school that thechild attends, provide to thechilds father all reports, notices and school photo order forms about thechild and will authoriseand keep authorised all medical, counselling andeducation professionals involved with the child to communicate with the fatherabouther. The provision of any such reports (or photographs) will be at theexpense of the father. (5) (a) The mother will inform the father by e-mail or by telephone or byordinary mail or by text as soon as is practicable afterany serious eventinvolving the childs health, informing him about the incident. Themother will provide information to thefather about any medicine or treatmentthat the child might be taking or undertaking. (b) The motherwill listen to any advice the father may wish to provide about matters relatingto the childs health but ifthere is a difference of opinion between theprofessionals the mother has consulted and the fathers view the motherwill havefinal determination as to the treatment or medicine to be undertakenor taken. (6) (a) The parents will communicate with each other by e-mail about eventsinvolving the child which the father may attend if heis able to do so. Thisincludes sporting events and concerts. (b) If thefather attends any such event, he be, and is hereby restrained from sayingunkind or unpleasant things about the motherto any of the other parents orother people attending such functions. (c) Inaddition, unless the mother should initiate such action at any such function,the father will not approach the mother and willnot undertake any conduct whichmay embarrass the mother. (d) Each of theparents will, at such function, do all within his or her power to ensure thatthe child appreciates the fact thatboth parents are attending thefunction and each of the parents will provide opportunities for the child tospend time with the other. (7) (a) When the child is with her father she may communicate with her father atany reasonable time by telephone or by other electronicmeans. (b) When thechild is with her father she may communicate with her mother by telephone orother electronic means (at any reasonabletime). (c) Generallyspeaking, it would be normal for the child to communicate with one parent or theother - perhaps once per day - butnothing prevents the parents from agreeingotherwise or from the childs communicating with the other parent moreoften ifshe wishes to do so. (d) During thecourse of any such communication, the parent at whose house the child is thenliving, or staying or spending time willabsent himself or herself from the roomin which the child is speaking to the other parent. (8) Each parent be and is hereby restrained from using the child as a means ofcommunication to the other parent but each of theparents will encourage thechild to discuss with the other any activities she may have undertaken in thetime that she is with thatparent. (9) Each of the parents acknowledges that it may not be possible for the childto be able to communicate with the other parent oneach day. (10) Each parent will accept that in some cases it may take several attempts forthe child to communicate with the other parent. (11) Notwithstanding the abovementioned arrangements, neither parent will ringthe child except with the consent of the other parent. Each parent accepts thathe or she may ring the child on each of: the childs birthday, thatparents birthday, ChristmasDay, Easter Sunday - or any other time thatmay be agreed between the parents. (12) The child will spend time with her father as may be agreed, but in defaultof agreement as follows: (a) For threeoccasions, commencing (unless the parents otherwise agree) on either 18 or 19October 2014) a fortnight apart, for aday, either a Saturday or a Sunday, atthe home of Ms F and in the full-time presence of Ms F. (b) Thereafter,for a further three periods, again two weeks apart, from Saturday morning untilSunday evening at the home of Ms F,with Ms F being present for the whole of thetime that the child is with her father. (c) Thereafterfor a period of three weekends (again a fortnight apart) from Friday night untilSunday night with the mother beingresponsible for the delivery of the child toMs Fs house on the Friday evening and the father, or Ms F or Ms Thornton,beingresponsible for the return of the child to her mothers house on theSunday evening, not later than 6:30pm. In the alternativeprovided the fathergives adequate notice, if the father wishes to do so, he may collect the childor may cause either Ms F or MsThornton to collect the child from her school onthe Friday afternoon. (d) Thereafter,the time that the child spends with her father need not be in the presence of MsF nor Ms Thornton on each weekend. However, in accordance with therecommendation of the Single Expert Witness (and accepted by the father)she will spend overnight time at the home of Ms F or Ms Thornton. Such timewill be from the Friday afternoon, in accordance withthe arrangements set outin the last suborder and will end on the Sunday evening. (e) Nothing inthese orders prevents the parents from reaching an alternative arrangement. (f) Thesearrangements will continue for a period of two years. Thereafter unlessthere is a further order of the Court or the parents otherwise agree, the childwill be collected by her fatherafter school on Friday in each fortnight andreturned to school on the Monday morning. From this time on it is noted thatshe mayspend time with her father at her fathers home although nothingprecludes the father having Ms F or Ms Thornton present duringall or some ofthe time that the child spends with him. (13) It is to be noted that for the first two years there will be no holidaytime that the child spends with her father, unless theparties otherwise agree,but the fortnightly arrangements will continue through the school holidays,unless the parents otherwiseagree. (14) Starting from the June/July New South Wales school holidays in 2017 thechild will spend half the school holidays with the father,or such time asotherwise agreed between the parties. (15) (a) The mother will take such steps as may be necessary to ensure that thechild receives such counselling or support as maybe necessary to enable her todevelop protective capabilities and also to enable her to have someone to whomshe can speak if shewishes to do so, other than her parents. It is noted thatthe school counsellor may be an appropriate person for this purpose butindefault of that person being available, the parents, and in particular themother, will consult with the manager of Family Consultantsat the NewcastleRegistry of the Family Court of Australia and will accept advice andrecommendations as to an appropriate person. (b) A copy ofthis judgment and a copy of Dr Rs report may be made available to anysuch counsellor to assist in the time thatshe spends with the child. (16) By consent, the father be and is hereby restrained from bathing thechild, applying any cream or ointment to the childs genital area,dressing the child, permitting the child to sleep in his bed and sleeping in thechilds bed. (17) I direct that arrangement be made with the manager of Family Consulting inNewcastle for a Family Consultant to speak to thechild, possibly in Town B, assoon as is practicable to explain to her the orders that have been made and toinform the child thatthe Court had listened carefully to what she had said andthat the orders that had been made were orders that the Judge consideredin thecircumstances to be best for her. She might also be informed that both of herparents were of the view that it was appropriatethat she should spend time withboth her father and her mother. (18) The Independent Childrens Lawyers application for costs isdismissed. IT IS NOTED that publication of thisjudgment by this Court under the pseudonym Bailey & Thornton has beenapproved by the Chief Justice pursuant to s 121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act1975 (Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT CANBERRA FILE NUMBER:NCC 3248 of 2009 Ms Bailey Applicant And Mr Thornton Respondent REASONS FOR JUDGMENT FOREWORD Therespondent father in this matter is a farmer who lives on a property calledProperty C, about twenty kilometresout of Town D in New SouthWales. He lives by himself. The applicant mother lives in Town E in New SouthWales with her son, G,from another relationship, and the child the subject ofthese proceedings  Y (the child). The child is fiveyearsof age. Therewere proceedings between the parties in the past which culminated in the makingof orders by consent by Federal Magistrate Foster(as his Honour was then) on 22June 2011. As a result of those orders the child was to live primarily with hermother and spendtime with her father, but that was to change when she went toschool. The ordered arrangement of nine nights or days with her motherand fivewith her father was to change to a week about arrangement when she began toattend school. InSeptember 2012 it appears that the child first made a disclosure that her fatherhad touched her inappropriately. These allegationswere reported but the JointInvestigation Response Team (JIRT) declined to take any further action. InNovember 2013 the child again made a statement (which I accept as apparentlyspontaneous) asserting that her father had touchedher inappropriately. Asa consequence of this disclosure the mother again reported the matter and againJIRT did not obtain such evidence as they neededto proceed. The father was notinterviewed on either occasion although there is some confusion about whetherthat was at his instigationor that of the police. The father has alwaysasserted that he had not engaged in the activities complained about. WHAT EACH OF THE PARTIES WAS SEEKING Inthis matter the mother sought orders that the child live with her, that she havesole parental responsibility for her, and thatthe father only see her for avery limited time under direct supervision of a professional supervisor. Thefather sought orders that the child should live with him primarily and see themother on every second weekend and for half ofthe school holidays. Hisposition was that the child could not have a proper relationship with him if shecontinued to live withthe mother. TheIndependent Childrens Lawyer initially sought orders substantially inaccordance with the recommendations of the SingleExpert, Dr R. Therecommendations in Dr Rs report are set out as an appendix to thesereasons for judgment. Overthe course of proceedings, which occupied some three days in the Court, therewas a shift in the final position of each of theparties and of the IndependentChildrens Lawyer. At the conclusion of the proceedings counsel for theIndependent ChildrensLawyer produced a further set of minutes whichappear as a second appendix to these Reasons for Judgment. TheseMinutes substantially adopted the revised recommendations of the Single Expertwhen she gave evidence in the witness box. Atthe conclusion of the hearing (during submissions) counsel for the fatheradopted those Minutes. Initially,counsel for the mother advised me that his instructions were to persist with theapplication originally made which involvedvery limited time for the father withthe child. Afterdiscussion, and a short adjournment, counsel for the mother advised that hisclient would accept one of the potential programsoutlined by me for theresumption of the time that the father would spend with the child. Counselconfirmed the mothers verybrave (and proper) decision that she proposedfrom this day to go forward and to try to make the best of the situation. Theproposals eventually accepted by the mother (although not by the father)involved an initial period of three day visits a fortnightapart with either MsF or Ms Thornton (the fathers older daughter) present, followed by threefortnightly visits from Saturdaymorning until Sunday evening, again with one ofthe two women referred to above present, and with the child sleeping at the homeof Ms F. The proposal then graduated to three weekends in which the child wentfrom Friday afternoon until Sunday evening, witheither Ms F or Ms Thorntonpresent with her sleeping at Ms Fs residence. Thereafter the child wouldspend every second weekendwith the father, sleeping at Ms Fs residencewithout the necessity for Ms F or Ms Thornton to be present. There will be noschool holiday time during that period, unless the parties otherwiseagreed. Thesleepover arrangements on the recommendation of the Single Expert were tocontinue for a period of two years. This was acceptedby the father. PRELIMINARY COMMENTS Beforelooking at the evidence in this matter it is important to focus on what theCourt is obliged to do in matters relating to children. Under the Family LawAct 1975 in matters relating to children the Courts paramountconsideration must be the best interests of the child. Itis easy to lose that focus in circumstances where there are allegations whichpotentially are of a criminal nature. Understandablythe parties are fixed onwhat might be a fair result for them without necessarily taking account of thebest interests of the child. That is not to suggest in this case that theparents were self-fixated but the nature of proceedings inevitably brings aboutsucha situation to some extent. Indetermining what is in the best interests of the child, the Court is obliged totake account of two primary considerations andwithin those two primaryconsiderations to give primacy, if necessary, to that which requires that theCourt ensure the safety of the child. The second primary considerationis the importance to the child of having a relationship with both parents. Thereafterfollow in the Act what are described as Additional Considerationsand I shall turn to those in due coursealthough, they were not the subject ofsignificant attention specifically by either of the parties or the IndependentChildrensLawyer. Naturallyenough much of the evidence was taken up with the allegations of child abuse. In my opinion, in matters relating to children,(or for that matter any matterbefore a court) the parties who have raised an issue which is relevant areentitled for the Courtto come to a decision on that issue if the Court isable to do so. Inthis matter, as I explained to the parties during the course of the latter partof the proceedings, I was unable to reach a conclusionon the evidence inaccordance with the appropriate standard ofproof[1] that the abuse alleged hadoccurred. I further explained that on the evidence before me I could notfind, again to the appropriate standard of proof, that the abusehad notoccurred. I will return to this matter shortly. Itshould be noted that counsel for the mother opened by acknowledging that it wasunlikely that the Court would be able to make apositive finding but he soughtthat the Court should determine that for the father to spend time other than assuggested by the motherwith the child would impose an unacceptable risk of harmto the child. UNACCEPTABLE RISK Theconcept of unacceptable risk in the context of child abuse cases is difficult. It arises from the High Court decisions in M &M[2] and B &B[3]. The most quoted and reliedupon principle from those judgments is as follows: ... the courtshave endeavoured, in their efforts to protect the childs paramountinterests, to achieve a balance between therisk of detriment to the child fromsexual abuse and the possibility of benefit to the child from parental access.To achieve a properbalance, the test is best expressed by saying that a courtwill not grant custody or access to a parent if that custody or accesswouldexpose the child to an unacceptable risk of sexual abuse. Thisis sometimes interpreted as providing what amounts to a third standard of proof beyond reasonable doubt, on the balanceof probabilities andunacceptable risk. In my opinion their Honours in the High Court were notcreating a third standard of proofbut rather emphasising the importance ofsafety in relation to orders made by a Court. Byway of example even if the Court were to find positively that abuse hadoccurred, an order might be made which involved the otherparent being presentat any time when the child was with the abusing parent. In suchcircumstances it is difficultto imagine that there could be any physical riskto the child.[4] Iexplained to the parties that imposing protective arrangements or not imposingprotective arrangements really involved considerationof a spectrum. At one endof the spectrum are circumstances in which there could be no possible risk tothe child and at the other,an acceptance of the fact that something almostcertainly would not recur and preparedness in effect to allow the childunsupervisedtime and unrestricted time with the alleged abusive parent. Thetest as I interpret it, is to determine where on the spectrum inrelation tosuch matters the line might reasonably be drawn to provide what the High Courtdescribed (a situation where there wasnot an unacceptable risk). GENERAL DIFFICULTIES IN RELATION TO CHILD ABUSEALLEGATIONS Inalmost every case involving child abuse there are only two witnesses: thealleged perpetrator and the child. Almost invariably,the alleged perpetratordenies on his or her oath or affirmation that anything untoward has occurred. That was the case in thismatter as well. Theother witness, the child, generally has his or her side of the case put beforethe Court by those to whom the child has reportedin one way or another. Thechild may or may not be aware of the implications of what has happened orunderstand the physical activitieswhich may or may not have occurred. Thechild may lack the language to express himself or herself adequately about thenature ofthe things done to him or her. For example in this case, referencewas made (not by the child) to vagina when whatmay have beenintended was vulva. This is complicated by the euphemistic names given togenitals by parents with their children private bits, bottom, frontbottom, doodle and so on. Ifa child reports something to another person (usually a parent and usually amother) what the child says may not be clear and itis a normal human reactionfor the person to whom the report is made to repeat and possibly rephrase thechilds complaintor report. The child may adopt the new phraseology ormay be surprised at the reaction of the person to whom they have reportedandbecome introspective and or defensive. Frequentlya parent will then report the matter to somebody else whether it be the police,the Department of Family Services, a priest,a counsellor, a Child at Risk Unit,a friend, a grandmother or mother, a doctor, a nurse or all of these. Thenature of the human memory seems to be that, in many cases, after a time what isreported is a recollection of what was said on a previous occasion oroccasions rather than a direct recollection of the events themselves. Inaddition, it is entirely artificial to expect that parents (particularly) insuch circumstances will abide by the niceties of askingopen questionsrather than leading or closed questions. As a consequence a child who is eithershocked, hurt or emotionally distraught at a breachof trust (if something hasactually happened) or alternatively a child, who is now shocked at the reactionof the parent to whomthe child has spoken, is likely to be alarmed and to wantto find a way to appease a distraught parent or to justify in some wayanearlier comment. Thosestatements are not intended to be a comprehensive analysis of what happens withchildrens evidence in abuse cases. Insome cases the complaints areclear and immediately believable. In other cases, they are fantastic andunbelievable. Ina case such as this the difficulty is that the complaints in themselves are notfantastic (in general terms, and I will returnto be more specific in duecourse), the complaints are reasonably specific and relate to conduct whichcould have happened in thecircumstances.[5] Allof these factors are things which have to be weighed in making a determination. Withoutwanting to make this a case exclusively about child abuse it is probablyappropriate at this point to consider and evaluatethe evidence about thismatter in this case. Iindicated to counsel and to the parties, that this was not a matter in which theevidence was such that, in my opinion, I couldmake a positive finding that theabuse occurred. The primary evidence that such abuse occurred were thedisclosures of the child. The primary disclosures, if I may call them such,were in November 2012 and September 2013. In each case those primarydisclosuresappeared to be relatively spontaneous and related to daddytouching me in my private bit, or playing with myprivatebit or putting his finger down there. There were otherdisclosures made to doctors, to JIRT and containedin a video recording of thechild made by her mother, which almost certainly, if analysed, are so tainted bythe circumstances inwhich the alleged disclosure was made as to be totallyunreliable. This is not to criticise any of the people involved includingthedoctors or the mother, but rather to say that the evidence could not possiblyhave any weight in circumstances where objectivityon the part of the personreceiving a report could not be relied upon. Ihave already made comment that the video was almost entirely composed of leadingquestions. As a consequence the responses wereas might be expected. Icommented to the parties however that the video itself showing the delightfullittle girl the child is, was to some extent, andto some extent only,corroborative of the allegations in the naturalness with which she demonstratedon two occasions what she saidher father had done. Iindicated to counsel and to the parties that the two (possibly three)disclosures referred to above were troubling, and troublingto the extent thatnotwithstanding the fathers sworn denial of any wrong doing, I could not,as a finder of fact, be satisfiedto the requisite standard that nothinguntoward had occurred. An unacceptable risk? Inthis matter, given that I believe that the evidence did not justify my making apositive finding and that I was unable to be satisfiedthat nothing hadoccurred, the orders I might reasonably make must not impose an unacceptablerisk of harm on the child. Themother indicated on a number of occasions that she wanted to be 200 per centcertain that there would be no risk to the child. Nothing in life is 200 percent certain. I interpreted the mothers comments in this regard as beingindicative of her commitmentto her daughter and to her daughters safety.It might be easy to interpret such comments as indicating an unwillingness everto concede that there might be some mistake. Such a view might have beenreinforced by the fact that the mother conceded that ona number of occasionsthe child had in fact not told the truth (for example in relation to the dogbeing bitten by the snake). However,it was to the credit of the father and his lawyers that they did not assert anycoaching or deliberate and malevolent manipulationby the mother. WhenI had explained to the parties in the presence of their counsel that my findingswould not allow me to reach a definite conclusion,after a time of consultationwith her counsel the mother adopted a different approach, indicating that shewas prepared to move forward. This was an enormously courageous act on her partand I accept both its courage and its sincerity. Iwas impressed with the fathers evidence that there was not much point inmaking orders that proscribed his having overnighttime with the child eitherpermanently or for a time, because it was obviously feasible that (if he were soinclined) something untowardcould be carried out during the day. Heinterrupted what I did describe otherwise as a stolid performance in the witnessbox to express this view with a degree of animation. Ithink his logic is unimpeachable. It is clear that there may be a higher levelof risk in, for example, night time circumstancesas opposed to hay baling orsome other physical daily activity. Nevertheless, it seems to me that to imposea long-term night timerestriction would not be necessary to minimise the risksof harm being occasioned to the child. Harm in the context I have justmentioned relates mainly to physical harm. Harm may also be occasionedto the child emotionally or psychologically. Harm may also be occasioned to thechild if hermother is affected by stress as a consequence of her believing thatsomething might happen to the child during the time she is with herfather. The mothers attitude may then in turn impact upon the wellbeingof the child. Forthese (somewhat convoluted) reasons it seems to me that it is necessary forthere to be a transitional period in which the childcan reacquaint herself withher father and with Ms F. It is necessary for the child to be used to spendingtime with her fatheragain and for her father to get used to spending time withher. Importantlyin this context there should be a gradualness which allows the possibility atleast of the building up of some trust onthe part of the mother about theprocess and about the arrangements. It is easy to see that such trust orconfidence may be indefinitelypostponed by the mother in an effort to thwart orfrustrate the orders of the Court. I have pointed out to the mother in thiscasethat it cannot be that she does not comply with orders of the Court. Theconsequence of her failing to comply with the orders maybring about the thingwhich apparently she fears most at present. That thing is of course thepossibility that the child would liveprimarily with her father. Theseare factors which were recognised by the Single Expert Witness, Dr R, whosuggested the program that appears in annexure I. I indicated to theparties, and in particular to the mother, that I had in mind a slightlydifferent program with a different introductionand I outlined that program inmy comments. Thefather was prepared to accept Dr Rs proposals as they were amended tosome extent by the Independent Childrens Lawyer(see annexure II)and preferred those arrangements to those which I had outlined to the mother andto counsel. Beforeevaluating those proposals and considering the form of the orders I propose tomake, it is important that I give attentionto the other matters that I musttake into account under the Family Law Act 1975. Relationship between the child and her parents Thefathers basic proposition was that the chances of there being arelationship between him and the child, if the child wereliving primarily withher mother, were small. While that may have been a reasonable interpretation ofthe situation at the beginningof the trial I believe that by the end of theproceedings the mothers position had altered sufficiently that I couldhavea degree of confidence that would not necessarily be the case. Themothers original position was based on the proposition that nocircumstances could ever provide the total security shefelt was important forthe child. However, in her oral evidence she confirmed that nothing could keepthe child away from her fatherin the end and that provided that she wassatisfied about the childs safety she acknowledged that the child wouldderive benefitfrom being with her father. Notwithstandingthe antipathy between them it was to a degree refreshing to see the fact thatboth parents were prepared to acknowledgesome of the good things that the otherparent might do and in particular to acknowledge that the other parent did lovethe child. Examiningthe matter from that perspective the restrictive nature of the original proposalof the mother would not permit either agood, or possibly any reasonablerelationship to be developed between the child and her father. The orders thatI propose to makein this matter will, I believe, provide a measure ofopportunity for that relationship to develop satisfactorily. Takingaccount of the other matters that I am obliged to take into account I shouldfirst look to the fact that the Independent ChildrensLawyer recommendedinitially that there should be equal shared parental responsibility. Thiswas the subject of some discussion. Some qualifications to that concept wereintroduced in dialogue. Counsel for the fathervery properly, afterconsultation with his client, indicated that his client conceded that soleparental responsibility should bewith the mother and that he should be thesubject of consultation as was proposed in some draft orders put before theparties. Thoseproposals are in large measure reflected in the orders Imake. Thatdetermination relieves me of the primary obligation to consider that thereshould be equal shared time between the parents orsubstantial and significanttime. Inthe end, counsel for the father on the instructions of his client agreed thatequal shared parental responsibility was not necessarilyin the childsbest interests - at least as a result of defended proceedings before this Court.This was a concession properlyand reasonably made. Evenif it had not been made, there are practical considerations. The parties liveabout 100 kilometres from each other. There isthe likelihood that as time goesby, the child would be more involved with school and friends and sportingactivities. (She alreadyplays football.) There are the relatively restrictedcircumstances of the father (although he claimed they were in fact flexible,Ido not accept that assertion on his part). Additional factors Thechild is of an age where it might be difficult to evaluate what her wishes orviews might be. This is particularly so in thismatter given the overlay of thedifficulties both as to her mothers attitude to the father and herfathers attitudeto her. What was encouraging however was to see thereport of the Single Expert Witness about how she got on with her father afterthe initial difficulties in greeting him. While he may not be the mostintuitive, sensitive and emotionally supportive father thata child could have,the fathers love for the child was apparent and the childs lovefor her father was equally apparent. His persistence in these proceedings isindicative of his acceptance, at least in non-financial matters, of hisobligations as aparent and his wish to be a part of the childs life willprobably give her significant benefit. I am satisfied that her viewsare tomaintain some time with her father and for that time to be both meaningful andsatisfactory. Thecapacity of each of the parents was somewhat in question. The mother early onin the childs life had suffered from a boutof mental illness which meantthat the father cared exclusively for the child for about a year. He claimed,with some justification,that this demonstrated his capacity. The mother wasmuch more wary of the fathers ability and indeed having seen him in thewitness box and listened to his evidence and read his evidence, I share some ofher reservations. It was beyond belief for the fatherto assert that a changefrom the childs almost exclusive living arrangements with her mother tolive with him on a farm, inisolation, immediately, would not cause any stressto the child. This demonstrated in my opinion an inability to consider mattersbeyond his involvement and his needs rather than thechilds needs. Ialso formed the opinion that he had an inflated idea of his capacity both to beable to arrange his affairs to spend time with thechild and moreover to provideenough financial and physical support for her. He seemed to suggest that on anincome which the ChildSupport Agency accepted as being about $26,000 he wouldhave the flexibility to employ other people to do his work so he could spendmore time with the child. Even if his income were at the level that heotherwise asserted to me on his oath (that was $88,000) itis hard to see that aperson in his situation, particularly given the nature of the work, would alwaysbe able to find someone todo the work at a price he could afford at a time whenhe needed it - perhaps at short notice. Forher part, the mother has in recent times demonstrated a capacity properly tolook after the child. Her care of the child andthe childs half-brother,G, was not really in question. It was vaguely suggested that she had employedphysical punishmentas part of the disciplinary process. I am not satisfiedthat there was any excessive disciplinary activity even if she had administeredsome physical discipline. Counter-wise,it was asserted by the mother against the father that he had, on one occasion,shaken G and moreover laughed about itafterwards. I think this doesdemonstrate an element of irresponsibility on the part of the father but not amalicious irresponsibility. The suggestion that he burnt the childs toysas some form of punishment was rejected by the father and I thought convincinglyso. His explanation was reasonable and I accept it. Iam troubled by the possibility that the father may not have the financialcapacity to care full time for the child. His informationabout his financesmade vagueness almost a word of certainty. It was for him toprovide evidence about his arrangements. He failed to do so in any substantiveway. I accept that this was probably born out of frustration and anguish thatif the childwere not to be living with him primarily, he may lose heraltogether. While understanding the motivation, the lack of evidence wouldnotpermit me to do what the father wanted in any event. Itseems unlikely that either parent would substantially encourage a meaningfulrelationship between the child and the other parent. This is particularly so inthe case of the mother. I hope for the childs sake that the mother meantwhat she said when sheindicated that she was prepared to move forward fromthese Court proceedings. For the reasons I have set out above, in my opinionitwill be for the childs benefit to spend time with her father and thearrangements I am proposing to put in place will enableeveryone to calm downand get used to the new situation and to work together towards what I hope willbe a satisfactory conclusion. I hope both parents accept that opportunity forthe childs sake. Thereare allegations of violence in this matter which are disturbing because if Iwere to accept that they were true, it would certainlyindicate that on the partof the childs father there may be a problem as to the sort of role hewould be modelling to heror for her. Theevidence about these matters was, to say the least, vague and it is difficult,if not impossible, to come to any final and satisfactoryconclusion. I amprepared to accept the evidence of the mother, that the father is a manipulativeand to some extent dominatingperson. I accept that she may be physicallyafraid of his physicality. However, once these orders move into afinalpattern in some months time, the arrangements for her to actuallycome into contact with the father will be few. I hope thatif the arrangementswork out as well as they might, she will in time accept that she and the fatherhave the ability to conduct themselvesin a business-like manner aboutthe child and about her welfare. That will require an effort on the part of thefather as well to ensure that he keepshis temper under control. He needs to beconscious of the fact that his actions may be seen as overwhelming or physicallythreateningand to work with the mother for what is best for thechild. A word about practicality Inthis matter, although I accept that the parties are country people and thatdistances are not quite as dramatic as they might befor city folk, the physicalarrangements of the parties do create some difficulties. The fathersfarm is some twenty kilometresfrom Town D and 100 kilometres, or thereabouts,from Town E. It is two kilometres from his nearest neighbour. Town E is someeighthours distance from Newcastle. Itis not the case that the parties can just pop around the corner to share anexperience in relation to the child or to make arrangementsabout the time eachof them will spend with her. That being said, both parties accepted thatarrangements such as I have proposedare capable of being carried out. Formy part I would have found having a young person to my house to stay everysecond weekend for the foreseeable future (a couple of years perhaps)would bedaunting and restrictive. I accept that the spontaneous and generous evidenceof Ms F that she regards the child as hergranddaughter and would wish to treather accordingly. Ialso accept that the father in this matter, again generously, accepted therecommendation which I thought was quite restrictingfrom the Single ExpertWitness that the child should sleep other than at his place for a period of sometwo years. Notwithstandingthe parties acceptance of these matters I think it is important that theorders should be framed in a way whichenables some of the effects of thegeographical separation of the parties and the consequences of past actions tobe minimised. The orders I make are designed to achieve that purpose. Itis necessary to say a word or two about G. The relationship between G and thechild is agreed by all to be close. This is sonotwithstanding there is somethree years difference in their ages and G is older and a boy. It may be inpart attributable to thepossibility that G may be on the autism spectrum andthe Single Expert had recommended that the mother ensure that is adequatelyinvestigated. Noone has suggested that the relationship between the two is other than a warm,supporting and important one. One of the factorswhich would militate againstan order that the child live primarily with her father is that that wouldnecessarily involve her separationfrom G. G is important in the childslife. Iam prepared to accept that Ms F has been a very important part of thechilds life and in accordance with these orders willbe an important partof her life. I accept for these purposes that she regards the child as hergrandchild and that that is importantfor the child. Ms Fs generosity inthis regard is in the highest traditions of people from the country and hersupport forthe childs father is an important reference for him. Thechilds relationship with Ms Thornton is also important and MsThorntons commitment to being involved with the childin the future isencouraging as well. Thechilds involvement with Ms H, one of the mothers elder daughtersis obviously strong and appropriate, and will continueif Ms H continues to livewith her mother. These constitute perhaps not a large, but neverthelessimportant network of support forthe child and for each of the parents. Theparents are each lucky to have people to whom they can turn in their hour ofneed. Thereare no particular cultural issues that need to be considered. Section60CC(3)(l) asks me to consider whether it would be preferable to make the orderthat would be least likely to lead to the institution of furtherproceedings inrelation to the child. I cannot guarantee that the orders I make in this matterwill have that effect. To beginwith, there are some twelve years before thechild becomes an adult and a lot can happen in that time. I hope that theorders thatI make will put in place a situation which will enable the partiesto grow to accept and trust each other enough to ensure that thechild gets thebenefit from both of her parents and that she grows up to love and trust theadults with whom she is associated andreceives from them in different ways thevalues that she needs to become a proper citizen. That may mean that thearrangements willneed to change from those prescribed by the orders. I wouldhope that in time if any changes are required the parents might reachaconclusion about those orders themselves. If they do not it appears that itwould be necessary for a further decision in thisCourt to be made. That is notsatisfactory but it may be inevitable in those circumstances. The reasons why I made the Orders Notingthat the Single Expert Witness believes that there should be an earliertransition to longer time for the child to spend withher father, includingholiday time, it is probably necessary for me to explain why I did not agree. Allowingfor the distance between the parties, which I accept would indicate that longerperiods perhaps during school holidays maybe sensible, I take account of thefathers evidence about his time and the sort of work that he does andaccordingly I thinkthat it is preferable for at least the next couple of yearsfor the child to have only weekend time. Ifall goes as well as it might, the parents may reach a different conclusion andnothing prevents such arrangements from occurring. Thesharing of some of the decisions about the childs future is somethingthat might be difficult for these parents but consultation,painful though itmay be, is in my opinion important and necessary. Formy part, I would not necessarily have imposed a two year period for the childnot to sleep at her fathers home. I notethat the father accepted thisrecommendation from the Single Expert Witness. He may be wise in doing sobecause it does reduce thepossibilities that allegations might be made againsthim. Equally, if he chooses to have either Ms F or his daughter Ms Thorntonpresent during times that the child is with him that may in itself generateconfidence on the part of the mother and the child ifit is necessary in thelatter case to do so. Theorders set out above provide a framework within which the parents can developtheir mutual support for the child. It is now upto them to accept theresponsibilities that became theirs when the child was born and to give to thespecial person who is the childthe best opportunities she can have in life. ANNEXURE I [Thechild] continues to live with her mother. [Thechilds] time with her father occurs fortnightly, Friday to Monday, with[the child] sleeping in a familiar personshome (such as hersisters or babysitters) until she is around eight years old. Ifpossible, longer periods to occurduring school holidays. [Thechild] attends a formal protective behaviours course but not counsellingfocused on abuse. Any counselling should be open ended. [Themother] ensures her sons behavioural problems are assessed and addressedas soon as possible. [Themother] and Mr [J] establish consistency in their relationship and assist [thechild] with the notion she will have two daddies(ie she doesnot have to choose between [the father] and Mr [J]). Majorparenting decisions which are not finalised during these proceedings to be madeas needed through mediation. ANNEXURE II Allprior parenting orders are hereby discharged. Thatthe parents have equal shared parental responsibility for the child, [Y] born... September 2008, (the child). Thatthe child live with the mother. Thechild spend time with the father as agreed between the parties, but failingagreement Duringschool terms on each alternate weekend commencing after school Friday, Thursdayif the Friday is a non-school day, and concludingat the commencement of schoolMonday, Tuesday if the Monday is a non-school day, and such to commence on thefirst weekend of eachschool term. Forone half of each of the terms 1, 2 and 3 school holidays being the first half ineven numbered years commencing at the conclusionof school on the last day ofschool and concluding at 5:00pm on the second Saturday of the holidays and inodd numbered years commencingat 5:00pm on the second Saturday of the holidaysand concluding at commencement of school on the first day of the new term. Duringthe Christmas school holidays being the first half in even numbered yearscommencing after school on the last day of schooland concluding at 5:00pm onthe midpoint day of the holidays and in odd numbered years commencing 5:00pm onthe midpoint day andconcluding at commencement of school on the first day ofthe new school term, excepting the Christmas school holidays at the conclusionof 2014. Duringthe Christmas school holidays at the end of 2014 the alternate weekends continuein frequency but be from 6:30 Wednesday to6:30 the followingMonday. Notwithstandingany other order herein the child shall be with the father: Onthe weekend on which fathers day falls as per order 4 a above. Inodd numbered years from 5:00pm Christmas Eve until 5:00pm Christmas day. Onthe childs birthday if the child is not otherwise with the father from3:00pm to 7:00pm if a school day and if a non-schoolday from midday until4:00pm. Notwithstandingany other order herein the child shall be with the father [i]s suspended: Onthe weekend on which Mothers Day falls Ineven numbered years from 5:00pm Christmas Even until 5:00pm ChristmasDay. Forthe purpose of implementing changeover of the child to spend time with thefather, if the time commences or concludes at schoolthe father or his nominee,known to the child collecting the child from or returning the child to school. If the time commencesother than to or from school the mother shall cause thechild to be delivered to the father at his residence at the commencementof thechilds time with the father and the father shall cause the child to bereturned to the mother at her residence at theconclusion of the time. Bothparents shall authorise any school which the child attends to provide eachparent with copies of the childs school reports,school photographs,school bulletins or other information relevant to the childsattendance. Bothparents shall authorise any treating medial practitioner or other healthprofessional who may from time to time treat the childto provide each parentwith any relevant information in relation to the child and each parent shallinform the other as soon as practicalor not later than 48 hours should thechild require hospitalisation as a result of any injury or illness. Forthe first two visits the entire visit is to occur at the home of either [Ms F]or [Ms Thornton]. Forthe next four periods the child is to spend with the father the overnightcomponent shall occur at the home of either [Ms F] or[Ms Thornton]. Thenceuntil such time as the child turns eight years of age the child is to spendovernight with the father, is to be spent witheither [Ms F] or [Ms Thornton]present. Themother ensure that within six weeks of that date of these orders she arrange for[the child] to attend a course designed assisther to develop protectivecapabilities, and ensure that she attend such course as soon as a place isavailable. Such course to beas recommended by the Manager of Court Counsellingat the Newcastle registry of the Family Court of Australia. A copy of thereportof Dr [R] and the reasons for judgment in this matter be provided to theperson or agency providing this course. Thefather is restrained from: Bathingthe child Applyingany cream or ointment to the childs genital area Dressingthe child. Thatthe mother continue with treatment for her Bi-Polar disorder. Thatthe father pay the costs of Dr [Rs] attendance to give evidence, notingthat he has already paid the costs of the consolation[sic] and preparation ofthe report. Theparties contribute equally to the costs of the Independent ChildrensLawyer in the sum of $5,104.00 each. I certify that the preceding eighty-one (81)paragraphs are a true copy of the reasons for judgment of the Honourable DeputyChiefJustice Faulks delivered on 14 October 2014. Associate: Date: 14 October 2014 [1] On the balance of probabilitiesbut in accordance with s 140 of the Evidence Act which essentiallyimports the Briginshaw v Briginshaw [1938] HCA 34; (1938) 60 CLR 336test. [2] (1988) 166 CLR69 [3] (1988) FLC91-978 [4] In many cases of coursethere would be psychological or emotionalrisk. [5] In some cases there isjust not the physical opportunity to do what is asserted to have happened. AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/861.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           