FAMILY LAW - APPEAL FROM DECISION OF FEDERALMAGISTRATE  PROCEDURAL FAIRNESS  Appellant not shown ordersdrafted byrespondents solicitors prior to submission to FederalMagistrate for making. Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) Stead v State Government Insurance Commission [1986] HCA 54; (1986) 161 CLR141 House v The King [1936] HCA 40; (1936) 55 CLR 499 APPELLANT: Mrs Kapoor RESPONDENT: Mr Kapoor FILENUMBER: CAM 1065 of 2003 APPEALNUMBER: EA 97 of 2007 PLACE DELIVERED: Canberra JUDGMENT OF: Finn J HEARING DATE: 28 November 2007 DATE OF ORDERS: 28 November 2007 DATE OF REASONS: 29 November 2007 LOWER COURT JURISDICTION: Federal Magistrates Court LOWER COURT JUDGMENT DATE: 22 June 2007 LOWER COURT MNC: [2007] FMCAfam 397 REPRESENTATION COUNSELFOR THE APPELLANT: Mrs Kapoor appeared on her own behalf COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENT: Mr Brzostowski SC SOLICITOR FOR THE RESPONDENT: Mazengarb Barralet Family Lawyers ORDERS MADE 28 NOVEMBER 2007: Thatthe appeal be allowed. Thatthe orders made by Federal Magistrate Brewster on 25 July 2007 be setaside. Thatthe matter be remitted to Federal Magistrate Brewster for the making of ordersto give effect to his reasons for judgment deliveredon 22 June 2007 on thebasis that the orders made on 25 July 2007 be treated as draft orders and bothparties have an opportunityto make brief submissions in relation to the form ofthose orders and the content of those orders but only in the sense that theorders give effect to the reasons for judgment delivered on 22 June2007. THE COURT REQUESTS that the matter be re-listed beforeFederal Magistrate Brewster with the greatest possible urgency. Inthe event the wife files a Notice of Appeal against any further orders made byFederal Magistrate Brewster to give effect to thereasons for judgment deliveredon 22 June 2007, then no filing fee will be payable by the wife and the appealwill be listed forhearing before the Honourable Justice Finn at the firstavailable date, with there being no necessity for the wife or the husbandtofile any further documents, or for there to be any procedural trial and to thisend the Appeal Registrar will advise both partiesof the hearing date for theappeal. Thattranscript be prepared and provided to the parties of any further hearing ofthis matter before Federal Magistrate Brewster. IT IS NOTED IN CONNECTION WITH THESE ORDERS that thejudgment of the Full Court delivered this day will for all publication andreporting purposes be referred to as Kapoor and Kapoor. FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT CANBERRA Appeal Number: EA 97 of2007 File Number: CAM 1065 of 2003 Mrs Kapoor Appellant And Mr Kapoor Respondent REASONS FOR JUDGMENT YesterdayI made orders allowing an appeal by the wife, Mrs Kapoor, against orders made byBrewster FM on 25 July 2007 in propertysettlement proceedings between the wifeand the husband, Mr Kapoor. I set aside those orders and I ordered that thematter be remittedto the Federal Magistrate for the re-making of the orders togive effect to the reasons for judgment delivered by him on 22 June2007, but onthe basis that the orders made by him on 25 July 2007 would be regarded as draftorders on which both parties shouldbe given the opportunity to makesubmissions. Theseare my reasons for my orders made yesterday. BACKGROUND On1 and 2 May 2007 Brewster FM heard an application by the husband whereby hesought by way of property settlement, that the matrimonialhome be sold and theproceeds divided equally between the parties, and the partiessuperannuation benefits be shared equallybetween them. The wife sought that thehusbands application be dismissed. On22 June 2007 his Honour delivered his reserved judgment in relation to thehusbands application. In that judgment he determinedthat the partiesshould share equally in the value of the matrimonial home, and that thewifes superannuation interest shouldbe split between the parties withthe husband receiving an amount using a base figure of $145,000. Howeverwhen he delivered his reasons for judgment on 22 June 2007, his Honour did notmake orders to give effect to those reasons.Rather he gave the wife a furtherseven days to consider whether she wished to retain the matrimonial home, and heprovided the followingprocess for the drafting and making of orders to giveeffect to his reasons (emphasis added): 48. I do not propose totake out the orders in this matter at this stage. I will give the wife sevendays to reconsider her decisionnot to retain the home. If within that time shenotifies both the court and the husbands solicitors by letter that shewishesto pay the husband $275,000 I will order accordingly. Those Orders willgive her some time to pay the husband the amount due andwill provide for a saleif it turns out that she is unable to borrow sufficient money. If no suchletter is received I request thatthe solicitor for the husband to draft theorders I have foreshadowed. Given the wifes refusal during the hearingto facethe realities of the situation confronting her, orders may be necessarywhich are more specific and prescriptive than is usuallythe case. For exampleit might be appropriate for the selling agent to be specified rather thanleaving it to the parties to sortout. The husband might wish to nominate aminimum sale price. Given that the wife contends that the property is worthmuch lessthan Mr Lovells valuation she can hardly complain if thehusband wishes to leave a margin for error if no offer is made tobuy theproperty for $600,000. It might be appropriate to make specific orders as toco-operating with the agent. 49. The process I propose to adopt is as follows: (a) The wife has seven days to notify the court and the husband by letter ifshe wishes to retain the home. If such advice is receivedI will draft theappropriate Orders. (b) If no such letter is received the husbands solicitor isrequested to draft Orders in accordance with this judgment. He isto send acopy of that draft to both the court and the wife. If the wife wishes tomake submissions as to those Orders she is to notify the court and thehusbands solicitor by letterwithin seven days of the date of thoseOrders being sent to her. I [sic] she does so I will either amend the Orders,decline toamend the Orders or re-list the matter for submissions. In any eventI may delete or vary some of the Orders sought, add additionalOrders or re-listthe matter on my own motion. On25 July 2007 his Honour made orders which stated that they were made inChambers. Itis unnecessary for present purposes to set out the orders. It is only necessaryto say that they essentially provided for the saleof the matrimonial home and adivision of the net proceeds equally between the parties, and for the splittingof the wifessuperannuation interest using a base amount of $145,000 forthe husbands share. They also provided for a division of thepartiesfurniture and household effects according to lists to be preparedby the wife. On21 August 2007 the wife filed a notice of appeal against his Honoursorders made on 25 July 2007. Included in the twenty-fourgrounds of appealcontained in that notice of appeal was the following ground as Ground 3: Appellantwife has been denied opportunity to make submissions to orders due to respondent[husbands] non-compliance to 22June 2007 Federal Magistrate [sic] Court(FMC) judgment directions to send draft orders to appellant wife for putting hersubmissions. Thewifes appeal was listed for hearing before me yesterday as a single Judgeof the Appeal Division of this Court pursuantto arrangements made under s94AAA(3) of the Family Law Act 1975. Atthe outset of the hearing yesterday, I raised with Senior Counsel for thehusband my concern that there was nothing in his writtensummary of argument,nor in any other material before me, to indicate what was the process by whichthe orders had actually beenmade, having regard to the directions in paragraphs48 and 49 of his Honours reasons for judgment; nor was there anythingtoindicate whether in the event that the orders had been drafted by thehusbands solicitor, they had first been shown tothe wife to enable herto make submissions in relation to them. SeniorCounsel for the husband was able to provide me with a copy of an email from thehusbands solicitors to the Associateto Brewster FM dated 6 July 2007attaching some draft orders (Exhibit 1 before me yesterday). However the emailmade no referenceto the wife, nor to whether or not she had been given anopportunity to see and comment on the draft orders. SeniorCounsel for the husband conceded that the draft orders had not in fact been sentto the wife before being sent to his Honour,although Counsel also told me thatthe orders as they issued from his Honours Chambers on 25 July 2007 werenot entirely inaccord with the draft submitted by the husbandssolicitors on 6 July 2007. Thewife informed me that the first she knew that the orders had been drafted andmade was when she received them in the mail on 1August 2007. Imention here that there was apparently no question but that the wife had notnotified the court or the husbands solicitorsthat she wished to retainthe home. Thus the husbands solicitors were obliged pursuant to hisHonours directions toprepare a draft of the orders, but they were alsoclearly required to submit that draft to the wife for her consideration. Thewife was able to provide me at yesterdays hearing with a copy of a letterwhich she had written to the Registrar of theFederal Magistrates Court on 22October 2007 (Exhibit 2) in which she said (amongst other things): Ihave been denied opportunity to make submissions to the orders of 25 July 2007,where, as per the judgment of 22 June 2007 applicant[husbands] lawyerswere asked to send draft orders to respondent wife for her submissions. I havestated in my affidavit of07 Sept 2007 & affidavit of 17 Sept 2007 that Ihave been denied that opportunity. Theaffidavits referred to by the wife were also in evidence before meyesterday. Inparagraph 3 of the first affidavit (Exhibit 3) the wife stated: Ihave been denied opportunity to making submissions to orders due to noncompliance by respondent [husband] to send draft ordersto wife for making hersubmissions. Inparagraph 4 of the second affidavit (Exhibit 4) (which was in fact sworn oraffirmed and filed on 19 September 2007) the wife stated: I have notbeen sent draft orders to put my submissions as was required of the lawyers forapplicant [husband] in the judgment on22 June 2007. Itappears that the second of those affidavits was in support of an application(Exhibit 5) filed by the wife on 19 September 2007in which, in addition toseeking a stay of the orders for the sale of the matrimonial home, she alsosought an order that: ...the case ... be re-listed on the matters related to how orders are made for saleof my family home of ... and how orders are beingmisused. Italso needs to be mentioned at this point that on 17 September 2007 the wife hadappeared before Brewster FM (with the husbandssolicitor also beingpresent) seeking a stay of his Honours orders but only in relation to theorders relating to the splittingof the wifes superannuation interest.His Honour made an order which, at least in effect, granted that stay. Howeverthe transcript of the proceedings on 17 September 2007 contains the followingexchange between his Honour and the wife whichoccurred after his Honour madehis order effectively granting the stay: [THE WIFE]: Can I also askif, on the matter of sale of house, if the matter can be re-listed as per yourorders? FEDERAL MAGISTRATE: You will need to file an application about that. The onlyapplication before me is to stay the orders, stay thesuperannuation orders,thats the only application before me. [THE WIFE]: Thats right Sir. FEDERAL MAGISTRATE: And its the only application I propose dealingwith, and Ive just dealt with it. [THE WIFE]: I will do so, Sir. FEDERAL MAGISTRATE: Okay, thank you. [THE WIFE]: And I will - before I (indistinct) stay orders on the house, Iwill ask the matter to be re-listed. Thank you, Sir. It seems clear that it was in light of this exchange that the wife filed herapplication of 19 September 2007, which I referred toabove, seeking both a stayof the sale of the home and a re-listing of the matter to enable her to makesubmissions in relation tothe orders. Iwas also informed at the hearing yesterday that the matter had again come beforeBrewster FM on 29 October 2007 and that on thatoccasion his Honour stayed hisorders relating to the sale of the home. The wife also told me (withoutobjection from Senior Counselfor the husband) that the proceedings that day hadbeen too brief for her to raise with his Honour her complaint regarding thepreparationof the orders, which had been the subject of her letter to theRegistrar of the Federal Magistrates Court on 22 October2007. DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION Ithus formed and expressed the view at the hearing yesterday that so far as thewife was concerned there had been a serious proceduralirregularity, indeedunfairness to her, in that not only had she not been given an opportunity tocomment on the draft orders beforethey were made and as required by hisHonours reasons for judgment, but also when she had applied to have thematter re-openedbecause of that irregularity, her application had not beenheard. I mention here that Senior Counsel for the husband did not seektodissuade me from this view. Itis, of course, true that not every departure from the rules of natural justiceor procedural fairness in proceedings leading tothe making of orders, willresult in an appeal against those orders being allowed (Stead v StateGovernment Insurance Commission [1986] HCA 54; (1986) 161 CLR 141). Itis also true that in many, if not most, cases in the family law jurisdiction, alitigant is not provided with, and indeed has noright to comment on, theultimate form of orders when they are made. However in this case his Honourhimself required that if a draftof the orders was to be prepared by thehusbands solicitors, then that draft was to be sent to the wife forcomment. As Ihave earlier said, that did not occur. Itis further true that had the wife had the benefit of legal representation beforeme, her legal representatives may well not havepursued the complaint regardingthe procedural irregularity in relation to the making of the orders. This wouldbe likely to be sofor the reason that the only remedy for the complaint wouldbe a remaking of the orders after submissions from the parties as toform andcontent (but only to ensure that the content reflected the reasons forjudgment). This course would be unlikely to providethe wife with the reliefwhich, it seems clear, she is really seeking, and that is, relief from thesubstance of his Honoursreasons for judgment of 22 June 2007. IndeedI understood the wife to endeavour to persuade me that there was no point in myremitting the matter to his Honour for a reconsiderationof his orders in lightof any submissions she might wish to make because the orders were likely to besubstantially the same andit was about the substance of his Honoursdecision that she was really complaining. However,as I said on a number of occasions during the hearing, it is the wifesposition as an unrepresented litigant whichis of particular concern to me, andwhich prevented me from endeavouring to persuade her that the proceduralunfairness which hasbeen occasioned to her, can be overlooked for the reasonthat it has no practical significance because any new orders which willbe madeby his Honour will not remedy the wifes complaint regarding the substanceof his reasons for judgment. Furthermore,and again as I said during the hearing, it may well be very difficult for thewife to succeed in her appeal on the basisof any of her other grounds of appealgiven the limitations on appellate interference with a discretionary judgment,as is the judgmentin this case (House v The King [1936] HCA 40; (1936) 55 CLR 499). Butmy concern was that the wifes clear sense of grievance is likely to befurther heightened should her appeal be ultimatelydismissed in circumstanceswhere she had been persuaded by me to abandon her one ground of appeal whichclearly has substance, thatis Ground 3, although its success is likely to havelittle ultimate practical significance. Itwas for these reasons that I reluctantly concluded that I had to allow theappeal on the basis of Ground 3, set aside all ordersmade by his Honour andremit the matter to him for further consideration as to the form of his ordersand content (in the sense thatthe orders should reflect his reasons forjudgment of 22 June 2007) in light of any submissions either party may wish tomake. OnceI had determined that the appeal should succeed and the orders be set aside onthe basis of Ground 3, and the matter remittedto his Honour for the making oforders in light of any submissions which the parties may wish to make, Iconsidered that it wouldnot be appropriate for me to express any views on thewifes other grounds of appeal. Itis important to emphasise (given the observations of the High Court inStead) that this matter is not being remitted for a retrial but only forsubmissions in relation to the form and content (in the senseof the need toreflect the reasons for judgment of 22 June 2007) of the orders. It is alsoimportant to emphasise that it was theposition of Senior Counsel for thehusband, at least as I understood it, that there was no other course open to meother than thatwhich I considered I had to adopt. Itis obviously desirable that there be as little further delay as possible in thismatter. To this end I included in my orders arequest that the FederalMagistrates Court list this matter for further submissions with as much priorityas possible; that a transcriptof any such further hearing be provided to theparties; and that any appeal which the wife may then file against the new orderswhichhis Honour may make, be heard by me as soon as possible without anyfurther directions hearing or filing of material. Also the wifeshould not berequired to pay a further filing fee on any further appeal. I certify that the preceding thirty-four (34) paragraphs are atrue copy of the reasons for judgment of the Honourable Justice Finn. Associate: Date: 29 November 2007 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2007/1390.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           