FAMILY LAW  CHILDREN Adoption  Application by step-parent  Leave to commenceadoption proceedings pursuantto s 60G  Where the biological father didnot participate in these proceedings  Where it is in the best interestsofthe child to grant leave Adoption Act 2009 (Qld) Family Law Act1975 (Cth) Allesch v Maunz [2000] HCA 40; (2000) 203 CLR172 FIRST AND SECONDAPPLICANTS: Ms Van Shoester and Mr Van Shoester RESPONDENT: Mr Varden FILENUMBER: BRC 4957 of 2014 DATE DELIVERED: 13 October 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Brisbane PLACE HEARD: Brisbane JUDGMENT OF: Kent J HEARING DATE: 13 October 2014 REPRESENTATION SOLICITORFOR THE APPLICANT: Ms Erridge, Solicitor, V A J Byrne & CoLawyers FORTHE RESPONDENT: No appearance ORDERS IT IS ORDERED THAT: (1) Pursuantto s 60G of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth), leave is granted to the Firstand Second Applicants to commence adoption proceedings in respect of the child,R born on ...August 2005. (2) The First and Second Applicants have leave to publish these Orders andReasons for Judgment made today to the relevant Stateadoption authorities inpursuing the said childs adoption. IT IS NOTEDthat publication of this judgment by this Court under the pseudonym VanShoester and Anor & Varden has been approved by the Chief Justicepursuant to s 121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT BRISBANE FILE NUMBER:BRC 4957 of 2014 Ms Van Shoester and MrVan Shoester Applicants And Mr Varden Respondent EX TEMPORE REASONS FOR JUDGMENT ThisApplication concerns the child R (the child), who was born in NewZealand in August 2005 and is now nine yearsof age. TheFirst and Second Applicants, Ms Van Shoester, the mother of the child, whom Iwill refer to as the mother and herhusband Mr Van Shoester,applied pursuant to s 60G of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) that they begranted leave to commence adoption proceedings with respect to the child. Themother and Mr Van Shoester commenced their relationship when the child was only18 months old in February 2007. They commencedcohabitation when the child wasthree years of age in August 2008 and they married in June 2009. Their child,S, was born in August2011 and is now three years of age. I note that themother and Mr Van Shoester also had another child together, namely J born inAugust 2009, who tragically passed away at the age of 10 months as a result ofmeningococcal disease. As at the time of swearingher affidavit in support ofher Initiating Application which was sworn on 21 May 2014 and filed on 5 June2014, the mother was dueto give birth to her third child with Mr Van Shoesterin late June 2014. Section60G provides in subsection (2) that in these proceedings for leave, the Courtmust consider whether granting leave would be in the childsbestinterests. Iam satisfied on the evidence before me that Mr Van Shoester has played animportant role in the childs life from a very earlyage. Mr Van Shoesterhas treated the child as if he was his own biological son. For a long time now,Mr Van Shoester has providedfinancial support for the childs needs. Thus it is that for all intents and purposes, Mr Van Shoester has regarded thechildas his own biological son and has treated him as such. Further,I note on the evidence that the child is unaware that Mr Van Shoester is not, infact, his biological father. The motherdeposes that Mr Van Shoester has beenthe significant male role model in the childs life since he was 18 monthsold and assuch, he believes that Mr Van Shoester is his father and calls himdad, the same as his siblings. Commencingat paragraph 5 of her affidavit filed 17 September 2014; the mother sets out thelimited degree of involvement of the childsbiological father, Mr Varden,in the childs life. She there deposes to having an on/off casualrelationship with Mr Vardenfor 12 months in New Zealand before separating on 12August 2006 upon her relocating with the chilld to Australia when the childwasabout one year old. Sincerelocating to Australia, it appears that Mr Varden has not had any contact withthe child. The mother deposes that at the timeof her relationship withMr Varden, she was unaware that he was married with other children. However, she subsequently became awareafter she moved to Australia and appliedfor child support. At paragraph 9 of the mothers affidavit filed 17September 2014,she states that Mr Varden has made minimal child supportpayments, that is, no more than 12 payments, over the nine years of thechilds life. Onthe mothers evidence in 2009, she communicated with Mr Varden and hiswife through Facebook and informed them that she hadremarried and that she andMr Van Shoester intended to make an application to adopt the child, which MrVarden expressed his agreementto. Further, prior to seeking advice from hersolicitor in October 2013, the mother again contacted Mr Varden to confirm hisconsentto this Application, which he did. I note that on 20 August 2014,Registrar Brooks ordered that the Initiating Application be setdown for hearingtoday. Mr Varden did not appear on that occasion and has not filed any materialin these proceedings, despite itbeing clear on all the evidence that he is wellaware of the proceedings and the proposed Application. Acknowledgmentsof service and affidavits of service have been filed by the solicitor for theFrist and Second Applicants on 10 July2014 and 29 September 2014 respectively,evidencing that Mr Varden has been served with all the documentation filed inthese proceedings. Further, on 17 September 2014, Ms Erridge, solicitorfor the First and Second Applicants, filed an affidavit outlining a telephoneconversation she had with Mr Varden to confirm his contact details. Atparagraph 3 therein, Ms Erridge deposes that during her telephoneconversationwith Mr Varden, he indicated that he was aware of Mr Van ShoestersApplication to adopt the child and indicatedthat he had no objection to thatApplication. Moreover,at page 2 of their written submissions filed on 2 October 2014, under theheading Notice of this Application,the mother and Mr Van Shoesterrefer to conversations between the mother and Mr Varden during which Mr Vardengave his consent toMr Van Shoesters Application to adopt the child andthe fact that Mr Varden was served with the First and SecondApplicantsrequest to attend via electronic means and provided hisconsent to Mr Van Shoester. The mother and Mr Van Shoester contend thesefactssupport their position that Mr Varden consents to this Application proceedingtoday and I accept that to be so. Moreover,I am able to accept without reservation the evidence offered in support of theApplication in circumstances where Mr Vardenhas not sought to raise anyopposition to any of the facts alleged. For the record, Mr Varden does notappear today nor has he filedany material in these proceedings. I am for thereasons referred to, and on the basis that the documentation filed referred to,satisfied that Mr Varden is aware of these proceedings and does not oppose theorders that are sought. Iam satisfied that within the meaning of the principles of natural justice andprocedural fairness, outlined, for example, by KirbyJ in Allesch v Maunz[2000] HCA 40; (2000) 203 CLR 172, Mr Varden has had the opportunity to be heard, if he wishedto be heard, with respect to this Application. Section 60G provides insubsection (2) that in these proceedings for leave, the Court must considerwhether granting leave would be in the childsbest interests. This isthe only requirement governing proceedings in this Court regarding whether togrant leave. Leaveof this Court is a precondition to the making of an order for adoption in favourof a step-parent by a state court exercisingjurisdiction under the AdoptionAct 2009 (Qld). I note that as is pointed out by Mr Van Shoester in hisaffidavit filed 5 June 2014, at least part of the reason for himto seek formaladoption for the child is to complete their family and allow the child to havethe same surname as his siblings andfor the child to understand that Mr VanShoester intends to support him throughout his life as he matures to anadult andbeyond. Iam comfortably satisfied accepting as I do the materials filed in support of theApplication that it is in the childs bestinterests for the Applicationto be granted. Forthese reasons I make the orders set out at the commencement of theseReasons. I certify that the preceding sixteen (16) paragraphs area true copy of the reasons for judgment of the Honourable Justice Kent deliveredon 13 October 2014. Associate: Date: 13 October2014 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/875.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                