FAMILY LAW  Interim Property  agent appointed for sale ofproperty  wife sole owner of property  wifedid not sign agencyagreement  wife wants to appoint an independent agent for the sale of theproperty  where agentfor sale of property was acting on husbandsinstructions who is not legal owner  new agent appointed for sale ofproperty Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) s114 APPLICANT: Mr Bratic RESPONDENT: Ms Bratic FILENUMBER: SYC 5747 of 2013 DATE DELIVERED: 17 October 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Parramatta PLACE HEARD: Sydney JUDGMENT OF: Hannam J HEARING DATE: 9 September 2014 REPRESENTATION SOLICITOR FOR THEAPPLICANT: Hall Partners COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENT: Mr Jackson SOLICITOR FOR THE RESPONDENT: Tomasevic Poljack Lawyers ORDERS (1) Order1 of Orders dated 2 June 2014 is discharged. (2) Within 14 days from the date of these Orders, the respondent wife is to doall acts as necessary to instruct the President ofthe Real Estate Institute ofNew South Wales to appoint an independent real estate agent to sell the Suburb Cproperty, which isthe property situated at and known as B Street, Suburb C, byway of private treaty. (3) The applicant husband is to cause the company D Pty Ltd trading as E Pty Ltdto pay the costs of and incidental to such appointmentas and when they falldue. (4) The independent real estate agent appointed pursuant to Order 2, is toprovide a valuation of the property at B Street, SuburbC, for the purposes ofthe sale. IT IS NOTED that publication of thisjudgment by this Court under the pseudonym Bratic& Bratic has beenapproved by the Chief Justice pursuant to s 121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act1975 (Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT PARRAMATTA FILE NUMBER:SYC 5747 of 2013 Mr Bratic Applicant And Ms Bratic Respondent REASONS FOR JUDGMENT INTRODUCTION MsBratic (the wife) and Mr Bratic (the husband) areinvolved in property settlement proceedings, whichare yet to be fixed fortrial. Acentral asset in the proceedings is the former matrimonial home at B Street,Suburb C (the Suburb C property), whichis registered in the nameof the wife. Both parties wish for this property to be sold. On2 June 2014 the court ordered that F Real Estate (F) be appointedas the agent for sale of the Suburb C property.Subsequently the wife lostconfidence in the principal of that agency and refused to sign the agencyagreement. The husband seeksorders to restrain the wife from proceeding withthe sale through any other agent and appointing him as trustee for the sale. Healso seeks orders in relation to funds held in a solicitors trust accountfrom the sale of another property. Thewife opposes the husbands application and seeks discharge of the orderappointing F as well as seeking an additional orderappointing a new agent forthe sale. BACKGROUND Theapplicant husband was born in 1969 and is 45. The respondent wife was born in1972 and is 42. The parties commenced living togetherin January 2004 andmarried in 2005. They separated in January 2013 after cohabitating for almost 9years and are not yet divorced. Thehusband is a health professional and the wife is also a qualifiedprofessional. Theparties incorporated the company D Pty Ltd in March 2006 (thecompany). The husband worked as a Chiropractor andthe wife worked as theManager of their joint business operated through the company trading as EPty Ltd. Thehusband owned a property at G Street, Suburb H (G Street) and thebuilding on it prior to cohabitation. The companysregistered office islocated at this building, and the husband currently also resides there. In 2008,the parties purchased the adjacentproperty at I Street, Suburb H (IStreet), which is a vacant block of land. Thewife is the sole registered owner of the former matrimonial home, being theSuburb C property. Aloan to the parties is secured by a mortgage over the Suburb C property. Theloan is also secured by a guarantee given by the wifeand there was also amortgage over I Street. Somemonths after separation, in November 2013 the wife engaged Mr J, who was at thatstage a real estate agent employed by F in relationto the proposed sale of theSuburb C property. Mr J carried out an inspection of the property and based onthis inspection F advisedthe wife that an asking price of offers above$2,100,000 is our suggestion. The wife signed an exclusive agencyagreementwith F on 13 November 2013 for four months, until March 2014. Thisagreement confirmed that the property was to be offered at $2.1million and thatthe agents opinion as to the current selling price was $2.0 to $2.3million. F then commenced advertisingthe property and Mr J was the contactagent. Mr J was also described as the selling agent by theprincipal of F. MrJ dealt with the wife in relation to the property until sheceased employment with F. The date that this occurred is in dispute. On19 February 2014 orders were made, including that the husband cause the companyto pay the wife maintenance of $1,000 per week,$3,000 per week for mortgagerepayments for the Suburb C property and $140 per week to the wife for thepayment of rates, and buildingand contents insurance for the Suburb C property.Order 6 directed the parties to jointly instruct Mr K of L Valuers as a singleexpert to prepare a valuation report for three properties (Suburb C, G Streetand I Street). Mr K valued the property at SuburbC at $1.6million. The wifeconsiders Mr Ks valuation no longer relevant as five months have passedsince the valuation. On24 March 2014 further orders were made with the consent of the parties. Theorders gave the wife exclusive occupation of the SuburbC property, required thehusband to sign a Hardship Assistance Agreement for the mortgage on I Street andordered that the partieswere not to further encumber any of the threeproperties. Orders were also made for the appointment of Ms M as selling agentforI Street. A further order required the wife to direct the selling agent forthe Suburb C property to liaise with both parties asto the process of sale andto instruct the agent to sell the property and to market it for sale at a pricerecommended by that agent.There is a dispute between the parties as to whetherMr J the selling agent was still employed at this time at F. On17 April 2014, the wife instructed Mr N, the principal of F to reduce the priceon the Suburb C property to $1.9 million. On5 May 2014 the husband filed an application seeking the sale of I Street and theSuburb C property. On22 May 2014 the wife signed the agency agreement to appoint Ms M as sellingagent of I Street. Emailsbetween Mr N and Mr Hall, the husbands solicitor, indicate that Mr Halldrafted a letter for Mr N to place the F letterheadand send to both parties.The letter dated 30 May 2014 in virtually the same terms as drafted by thehusbands solicitor indicatesthat Mr Ns agency agreement with thewife ended on 13 March 2014 and that the wifes original request for thepropertyto be marketed with an asking price of $2.1million was in his opinionwas too high. Mr N also stated in the letter drafted by MrHall that he laterrefused to act on the wifes instructions to lower the asking price to$1.9million because the husband wasof the opinion that this would make littledifference. Mr N said in the letter he believed that the property should undergoa fiveweek marketing campaign and if not sold within that time, should undergoa four week auction campaign and suggested an asking priceof $1.695million. On2 June 2014, orders were made for the parties to appoint F Real Estate as theagent for the sale of the Suburb C property. Sincethis date the husband or hissolicitor only have dealt with the principal of F. The principal has notcontacted the wife in relationto the sale of Suburb C, even though he is awarethat the wife is the sole registered proprietor and that the husband was notorderedon 2 June to be a trustee for sale, and that such an order had beensought by the husband. Thewife continued to deal with Mr J, concerning the sale of Suburb C who, she saysshe still believed to be the selling agent forthe property. On16 June 2014 the principal of F met with the husband and the husband gave him acheque for $3,950 for the marketing campaign forthe sale of Suburb C. Theprincipal prepared and dated an Agency Agreement which he gave to the husband,which the husband forwardedto the wife via email for her signature. The wifewas not involved in the preparation of the Agency Agreement and did not sign it.This agreement specified that the property would be offered for sale at over$1.695 million and that the agents opinion asto the current sellingprice was $1.68 to $1.725 million. On18 June the wifes solicitor wrote to Mr J at the F address, where she waslisted on the F website as a registered real estateagent. In this letter thewife notified Mr J that she wished Mr J to be appointed as the agent for threemonths to sell the SuburbC property under a new agency agreement with the saleprice being from $1.8  $1.9 million. According to Mr J she was dismissedthe following day, though this is disputed by the husband. On27 June the sale of I Street was completed and the net proceeds of $318,828 weredeposited into a solicitors trust account.The parties are still to paytheir Capital Gains tax relating to this sale. Previously,the husband filed a complaint to the Department of Fair Trading complainingabout the handling of the Suburb C propertyby F Real Estate. Notwithstandingthis complaint he now also seeks that F sell the Suburb C property. In July2014 the wife alsofiled a complaint to the NSW Department of Fair Trading inrelation to the handling of the sale of the Suburb C property by Mr N,theprincipal of F. Asat 1 July 2014, the parties agreed that the amount outstanding on the loansecured by the mortgage on the Suburb C is about $1.55million. The wifecontends that in addition, a loan and overdraft facility (also secured by amortgage on G Street) and the wifesguarantee will also need to be repaidfrom the proceeds of the sale of the Suburb C property. She says that the totalindebtednessis $1.72 million, though as I understand it, this matter is indispute. THE ORDERS SOUGHT On2 July 2014 the husband filed an Application in a Case seeking orders that thewife be restrained from preventing the selling agentcontinuing with the sale ofthe Suburb C property. He also seeks to be appointed the Trustee for sale of theproperty and other orders. Itis essentially the husbands contention that the wife has been hinderingthe sale of the Suburb C property. In my view,the evidence does not supportthis proposition. The wife has taken a number of steps to actively advance thesale of the propertyand clearly wishes to obtain the maximum selling price. Her greatest difficulty is with the principal of F in whom she has lostconfidence. Although this Real Estate Agency was originally her choice, it isclear that for the wife this choice was made as theAgency employed Mr J, theselling agent. Itis not possible for me to determine on the available untested evidence when Mr Jceased working at F and whether there was someother means by which Mr J wasable to continue to sell the Suburb C property. Itappears that each of the parties interpreted the orders made on 2 Junedifferently. The husband and his solicitor continued todeal with the principalof F and the wife dealt with Mr J. Each of these agents made differentrecommendations about prices, marketstrategy and the like. It appears,however, that although the husband had not been appointed as trustee for salehis actions weremore akin to those of a trustee. The agent dealt exclusivelywith the husband or his solicitor rather than the wife who was thesoleregistered proprietor. There seems no doubt that the wife has lost confidencein the principal of F and even though the husbandseeks that the Agency continuein that role, at one stage he also made a complaint himself against Mr N. Theorders the husband is seeking are in the form of an injunction under s114 of theFamily Law Act 1975 (Cth) (the Act), that the wife berestrained from preventing Mr N or any person nominated by him in their capacityas Agent for the sale of the Suburb C property for taking certain actionincluding the erection of a For Sale signor the placingadvertising for sale on a real estate website. Thethrust of the husbands submissions seems to be directed at the unfairnessthat may flow to Mr N if another agent were tobe appointed due to the work Mr Nhas already undertaken connected with the marketing of the Suburb C property.The husbandscase outline is also couched in terms that the principal ofF wished for the matter to be returned to court and that it is theprincipalsperception that the wife is not cooperating with the saleprocess. Significantly, it was ultimately conceded on the husbandsbehalfthat there would be no prejudice to him if a new agent were to be appointed, assought by the wife. Thewife seeks to appoint an independent real estate agent to sell the Suburb Cproperty by way of private treaty and for all costsbe paid by D Pty Ltd. It isher case that she has lost confidence that F will obtain the best sale price forSuburb C. The wifehad initially also sought an order that the valuation ofSuburb C made by Mr K, the previous valuer be updated, but in the courseofargument conceded that it was appropriate that the new independent agent shesought to sell the property also value it. Theparties also seek opposing orders in relation to the net proceeds of sale heldin the solicitors trust account followingthe sale of I Street. Althoughin his Application in a Case the husband was silent as to this issue, in oralargument he soughtan order that the entirety of the funds in the trust accountbe paid to the wife. The wife sought in her application that followingthepayment of the Capital Gains Tax debt incurred by the parties and theirrespective debts to the Commissioner of Taxation, thata sum of $96 539 be paidto her by way of an interim payment for costs and the balance to remain in thecontrolled monies account.However, this was not pursued in the hearing where itwas put on the wifes behalf that she opposed an order that she receiveall of the funds from the sale of I Street in the trust account. Thewife also seeks orders restraining the husband from his individual capacity andcapacity as a director of the parties jointcompany, D Pty Ltd, fromdoing any act or thing that may interfere with the use and occupation of theSuburb C property by the wife. THE LAW & DISCUSSION Sofar as the husbands case is concerned, section 114(3) of the Act providesthat a Court may grant an injunction in any case in which it appears tothe Court to be just or convenientto do so. Suchorders are generally made in circumstances where it is feared that a party maydispose of property or assets under their control,other than in the ordinarycourse of business. The effect of the orders sought in this case would be torequire the wife to continueto have the property sold by an agent in whom shehas lost confidence pursuant to a contract in which she has had no input. Incircumstanceswhere I have not found that the wife has obstructed the sale andhas to the contrary acted in a manner to maximise the sale price,and where nodetriment to the husband has been identified I do not find it just or convenientto make the orders sought. Thebalance of the orders sought by the husband were not further pursued in thecourse of argument except one in relation to the proceedsof sale from I Street.The husband sought an order that the money held in a controlled monies accountwith a solicitor followingthe sale of I Street be directly applied to themortgage on the Suburb C property. This order was amended in the course ofproceedingsand it was submitted that the wife should receive at least $285 753from the monies held in trust, because she was likely to be entitledto at leastthis amount in any final property proceedings. Thewife opposed this order being made as she says the money is to be applied forthe parties future Capital Gains Tax liabilities,and also their currentATO liabilities. The wife sought orders in her response for the money to bedirectly applied to the paymentof any Capital Gains Tax incurred by the partiesin relation to the sale of I Street and then to be applied to both parties ATOdebts,and following a sum of $96 539 to be paid to the wife by way of interimcosts. However, this was not further developed in the argument.The only orderbeing ultimately sought by both parties in the Application in a Case related tothe sale of the Suburb C property. Thereis dispute between the parties about how the money in the trust account shouldbe applied and in particular which loans shouldbe paid out. This depends onvarious facts that need to be found and the Court was not in a position at thisinterim stage to makethese findings to ground these further orders. These arematters that are best suited to the final property settlement hearing betweenthe parties. Forthe reasons given, I propose to make the orders sought by the wife in relationto the sale of the Suburb C property. Theorders that I make are as set out at the forefront of these reasons forJudgment. I certify that the preceding forty (40) paragraphs area true copy of the reasons for judgment of the Honourable Justice Hannamdeliveredon 17 October 2014. Legal Associate: Date:16 October 2014 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/879.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    