FAMILY LAW  CHILDSUPPORT  Enforcement  where wife alleges husband has failed tomeet obligations pursuant toBinding Child Support Agreement  wherehusband submits error occurred as a result of a direction from the Child SupportAgency husband transferred lump sum on day of hearing wifes application dismissed and no order as to costs. Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) APPLICANT: Ms Zanella RESPONDENT: Mr Zanella FILENUMBER: ADC 1395 of 2007 DATE DELIVERED: 23 October 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Adelaide PLACE HEARD: Adelaide JUDGMENT OF: Dawe J HEARING DATE: 23 October 2014 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: n/a SOLICITOR FOR THE APPLICANT: In Person COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENT: n/a SOLICITOR FOR THE RESPONDENT: In Person ORDERS UponNoting the husband has today transferred to the wifes WestpacBanking Corporation account number ... the sum of SEVEN THOUSAND EIGHTHUNDRED AND TWENTY-FIVE DOLLARS [$7,825.00] such sum being a debt due andowing by the husband to the wife in relation to the property settlement ordersoutstanding for theyear 2013. (1) The Application in a Case filed by the wife on 27 June 2014 is dismissed andremoved from the pending cases list UPON NOTINGthe Court grants leave for theparties to reinstate the matter for further directions before the HonourableJustice Dawe (if necessary)upon giving the other party fourteen [14] dayswritten notice of the request to the Family Court ofAustralia. IT IS NOTED that publication of this judgment by this Court underthe pseudonym Zanella & Zanella has been approved by the ChiefJustice pursuant to s 121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT ADELAIDE FILE NUMBER:ADC 1395 of 2008 Ms Zanella Applicant And Mr Zanella Respondent EX TEMPORE REASONS FOR JUDGMENT Thereare no applications for final orders before the Court. Inrelation to the Application in a Case the wife is seeking an order of costs ofthe sum of $127.25 in accordance with the sums expendedthat have been set outin the annexure to the affidavit filed on 21 October 2014 which the husband sayshe has not yet received. Section 117 indicates that subject to subsection (2)each party should bear their own costs. The matters to be taken into account insubsection(2) of section 117 deal with the various matters including thefinancial circumstances of the parties and the conduct of the litigation by theparties. Inrelation to this matter and taking into account the history of the matter, theamount of somewhat irrelevant material from timeto time which has been putbefore this Court, and the difficulties the parties have experienced in sortingout controversies withthe Child Support Agency I do not consider it appropriateor just and equitable in these circumstances to make any order for costs. Thatwill mean that both parties should bear their own costs in relation to theseproceedings in the Application in a Case and theResponse to the application. TheCourt has received exhibit 1 which indicates that following upon a request fromme the husband has paid the wife the sum of $7,825which brings the payments duepursuant to the property settlement as at December 2013 up to date. Paymentsdue in relation to 2014are due and payable by 1 December 2014. I haveexplained to the parties that considerable penalties could apply (and interestwillno doubt run) if this order is not obeyed promptly. Othermatters which are being sought deal with what is a dispute concerning thepayments required pursuant to the Child Support Agreementwhich was referred toand annexed to the order of 21 December 2010, being a Binding Child SupportAgreement signed by the partieswhich provided not only that the husband payperiodic child support as assessed but that he also pay non-periodic childsupport consistingof 20 per cent of the school fees and all associated schoolcosts such as sports fees and other items, and also all private healthinsurancecover for the children. Theparties claim they have faced difficulties in relation to the Child SupportAgency apparently demanding that payment of the non-periodicchild supportamounts be paid by the husband to them and not to the wife and allegedlythereafter not treating them as non-periodicchild support payments but treatingthe payments that the husband makes as payments of periodic child support. These are matterswhich should be urgently dealt with by the Child SupportAgency. Clearly, if the monies paid by the husband to the Child SupportAgencyhave been treated as periodic child support (and should have been paid to thewife either as payments of non-periodic childsupport or paid to the wifepursuant to the order for property settlement) then those matters need to beclarified by the Child SupportAgency. Ifthe monies have been treated as periodic child support payable to the wife thenthe husband must forthwith make the differenceup between those amounts whichhave been paid for non-periodic child support and instalments in advance forproperty settlement paymentswhich are due on 1 December 2014. Inview of the difficulties that the parties have experienced in that regard I willnot, as I might otherwise, dismiss the Applicationin a Case and Response butwill dismiss the Application in a Case at the same time granting leave for theparties to reinstate thematter upon giving the other party fourteen dayswritten notice of the request to the Family Court to reinstate the matter beforeme. I certify that the preceding eight (8) paragraphs are a truecopy of the reasons for judgment of the Honourable Justice Dawe on 23October2014. Associate: Date: 24 October 2014 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/911.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             