FAMILY LAW  CHILDREN  With whom achild spends time  Orders Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) JG & BF (1994) FLC92-515 Jones & Dunkeld [1959] HCA 8; (1958-1959) 101 CLR 298 Re F:Litigant in person guidelines [2001] FamCA 348; (2001) FLC 93-072; 27 Fam LR 517 APPLICANT: Mr Buckwater RESPONDENT: INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: Ms Perry Harris Lieberman FILENUMBER: MLF 1109 of 2005 DATE DELIVERED: 29 November 2007 PLACE DELIVERED: Albury PLACE HEARD: Albury JUDGMENT OF: Justice Cronin HEARING DATE: 22, 23 & 26 November 2007 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: In Person COUNSEL FOR THERESPONDENT: Ms Boyle SOLICITOR FOR THE RESPONDENT: Robb & Associates COUNSEL FOR THE INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: Mr OShannessy SOLICITOR FOR THE INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: Harris Lieberman ORDERS Thatthe orders made in the Family Court of Australia dated 28 June 2005, 26 February2007 and 23 March 2007 be discharged. Thatthe wife have sole parental responsibility for D born ... February 2000([D]), M born ... June 2001 ([M])and G born ...October 2005 ([G]) (the children). Thatthe children live with the wife and the wife have sole responsibility fordecisions regarding the childrens day to daycare, welfare anddevelopment. Thatthe wife advise the husband via email and keep the husband advised of allsignificant issues in relation to the childrens (a) health; (b) education; (c) residence;and (d) extracurricularactivities. Thatthe wife do all such things and sign all such documents as may be necessary toauthorise the childrens school to discussthe childrens progressat school with the husband and to provide copies of all school reports, schoolnewsletters and schoolphotographs to the husband, at the expense of thehusband. Thatthe wife shall do all such things and sign all such documents as may benecessary to authorise any treating medical practitioners,hospital or medicalpractice and/or counsellor that the children shall attend upon from time to timeto provide to the husband anyinformation regarding the childrensattendance upon them. Thateach party notify the other of any medical emergency or significant medicaltreatment that is required for the children or anyof them whilst they are intheir care. Thatthe child G spend time with the husband as follows: (a) for twohours (or such other period of time) that may be accommodated by theAlbury/Wodonga Childrens Contact Service (theService),such time to be supervised by the Service and to coincide with the weekends whenthe husband collects/returns Mand D from/to the Service pursuant to paragraph 9herein; (b) at anyother times as the parties may agree upon in writing or viaemail. ThatD and M spend time with the husband as follows: (a) duringschool term every fourth week from 4.00pm Friday until 4.00pm Sunday; (b) during theNew South Wales gazetted school term holidays as follows: (i) from 4.00pmon the last day of school in Term 1 to 4.00pm on the Sunday occurringimmediately before the first day of Term 2; (ii) from4.00pm on the last day of Terms 2 and 3 to 4.00pm on the middle Sunday of theholidays. (c) That forthe Christmas school holidays 2007/2008 the children spend time with the husbandas follows: (i) ifDs plaster is removed prior to Christmas Day, from 12 noon Boxing Day to4.30pm 16 January 2008; (ii) ifDs plaster is removed after Boxing Day 2007 but before 4 January 2008from 12 noon on the day following Ds plasterbeing removed to 4.30pm onthe 21st day thereafter; (iii) ifDs plaster is removed after 4 January 2008 from 12 noon on the dayfollowing Ds plaster being removed to 4.30pmon 25 January2008. (d) At anyother times as the parties may agree upon in writing or viaemail. Thatthe husband collect and return M and D at the commencement and conclusion of thespend time periods pursuant to paragraph 9 hereinat the Albury/Wodonga ContactService. Thatthe husbands time with the children pursuant to paragraphs 9 and 10herein is subject to the following: (a) the husbanddoing all acts and things and signing all such necessary documents to complywith all necessary intake proceduresas may be required by the Albury/WodongaChildrens Contact Service; (b) theavailability of the Service to facilitate changeover in relation to M and D andto facilitate supervised visits with G; (c) the husbandconfirming with the Service his intention to attend at the Service for thepurposes of changeovers pursuant to paragraph9 herein no later than 12.00pm onthe day of changeover if it is a Friday and by 4.30pm on the Friday if thechangeover is on a Saturdayor Sunday and if the husband does not confirm hisintention to attend at the Service, then his time otherwise commencing on thatday be suspended; and (d) the husbandcomplying with all requirements and directives of the Albury/WodongaChildrens Contact Service. Thatin the event the Albury/Wodonga Contact Service withdraws its use of servicesthen the spend time with arrangementspursuant to Order 8 andOrder 9 herein be suspended. Thatin the event the husband fails to return the children to the Albury/WodongaChildrens Contact Service as provided forin paragraph 9 herein on oneoccasion, then the spend time arrangements pursuant to paragraph 9 herein bevaried as follows: (a) if the nextspend time visit was due to be a weekend, from 9.00am to 5.00pm Saturday and9.00am to 5.00pm Sunday, with changeoverat the Albury/Wodonga childrensContact Service; (b) if the nextspend time visit was due to be a term school holiday visit, from 4.00pm on thelast day of term to 4.00pm the Wednesdayimmediately following, with changeoverat the Albury/Wodonga Childrens Contact Service; (c) if the nextspend time period was due to be a Christmas school holiday visit, from 12.00pmBoxing Day until 4.00pm on the firstSunday in the New Year, with changeover atthe Albury/Wodonga Childrens Contact Service. Thatin the event the husband returns the children to the Albury/WodongaChildrens Contact Service in accordance with paragraph13 herein, on twoconsecutive occasions, then the spend time arrangements pursuant to paragraph 9herein be reinstated. Thatin the event the husband fails to return the children to the Albury/WodongaChildrens Contact Service pursuant to paragraph13 herein, then the spendtime arrangements pursuant to paragraph 9 be suspended until further order ofthe Court. Thatthe parents communicate with children when they are not in their care byinitiating a telephone call to the other parent between7.00pm and 7.30pm oneach Wednesday and Sunday and the other parent shall ensure that the childrenare available during this timeto accept the call. Thatthe wife provide to the husband on at least one occasion each month a recentphotograph of the child G, an original artwork byG and an update on Gsdevelopmental progress. Thatboth parties be and are hereby restrained from discussing the spend timearrangements or variations thereto with the children. Thatthe parties maintain a communication book regarding important issues in relationto the children, such book to be exchanged atthe times of changeover. Thatthe husband be and is hereby restrained from removing the children from N PublicSchool or any other school that the childrenmay attend without the writtenconsent of the wife or further order of this Court. Thatwithin 7 days, the parties provide each other with details of their residentialaddress, telephone number and email address andkeep the other advised as to anychanges thereto. Thatthe wife forthwith arrange for D and M to attend a childrens group asnominated by the Family Relationships Centre orParenting Orders Program toassist the children deal with the parties separation and conflict. Thateach party attend a post-separation parenting course which addressed thechildrens developmental needs and the effectof family conflict withinsix months of the date of these orders. Thatleave be granted to the parties to provide any counsellor/psychiatrist that theyor the children attend upon, a copy of the FamilyReport dated 24 October2007. Thatboth parties be and are hereby restrained from: (a) denigratingthe other party or permitting a third party to do so in the hearing of thechildren; (b) consumingalcohol to excess or using illicit drugs whilst the children are in theirrespective care. Thatthe wife forthwith do all such things as may be required to obtain individualcounselling for D, such counsellor to be as nominatedby Ds schoolcounsellor or the Independent Childrens Lawyer. Thatthe husband make a contribution of $3943 towards the costs of the IndependentChildrens Lawyer, such costs be paid tothe Director, Legal Aid NSW. Thatall applications be otherwise dismissed and all proceedings be removed from thelist of cases awaiting a hearing. Thatpursuant to s.65DA(2) and s.62B, the particulars of the obligations these orderscreate and the particulars of the consequencesthat may follow if a personcontravenes these orders and details of who can assist parties adjust to andcomply with an order areset out in the Fact Sheet attached hereto and theseparticulars are included in these orders. IT IS NOTED that publication of this judgment under thepseudonym Buckwater & Perry is approved pursuant to s 121(9)(g) ofthe Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT ALBURY FILE NUMBER: MLF1109 of 2005 MR BUCKWATER Applicant And MS PERRY Respondent And INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER REASONS FOR JUDGMENT Ishall refer to the parties in this case as the husband and the wife for the sakeof convenience. Thehusband lives in Melbourne and the wife in the Albury/Wodonga region. Thetyranny of distance complicates the husbandsrelationship with his threechildren. The other complicating factors are that: (a) the thirdchild is a two year old born after separation and with whom the husband has norelationship; (b) the husband is easily frustrated about not being able to have the sort ofrelationship he wants with his children; (c) the husbands financial capacity to contribute towards not only thesupport of the children but to the travel for the purposesof seeing them, isvague; and (d) the oldest child has serious behavioural problems particularly at schoolwhich the husband says are not recognisable difficultieswhen he has thechildren in his care. Throughoutthe proceedings, the wife was represented by experienced counsel. The husbandwas not represented by a lawyer. I explainedthe process to the husband and amsatisfied that he understood what was happening and he was not disadvantaged. Ihave endeavouredto follow the requirements of Re F: Litigant in personguidelines [2001] FamCA 348; (2001) FLC 93-072; 27 Fam LR 517. I also had the additionalbenefit of an experienced, diligent and I may say patient IndependentChildrens Lawyer who wasrepresented by helpful and experienced counsel. Theparties negotiated a number of matters under difficult circumstances and I wasleft to determine the following issues: (a) whether there should bean order for the wife to have sole parental responsibility for the children; (b) how much time and under what circumstances, the husband should spend withthe two year old child; (c) whether the changeover of the children should occur at a handover centreor not; (d) a default position suspending or cancelling the husbands time withthe children if he was not compliant with orders; (e) whether, and if so who, should attend one or more health professionalsand under what circumstances to endeavour to alter personalrelationships;and (f) what specific holiday orders should be made because of the oldestchilds arms being in plaster as a result of a recentserious fall. THE CHILDREN Thethree children are D who was born in February 2000 and is therefore seven yearsof age, M who was born in June 2001 and thereforeaged six years and G born inOctober 2005 and therefore two years of age. G was conceived and born afterseparation. Dand M both attend N Public School. D is in Year 1 and M is in the kindergartengrade. BACKGROUND Thewife is aged 38 years and the husband 37. The wife is engaged predominately inhome duties but does do some work at a pre-school. The husband is in thebuilding trade. He described himself as unemployed but in reality, he is aself-employed contractor. Atvarious times, he employs workmen. Theparties married in February 1998 and separated in June 2004. Theparties seemed to initially sort out the relationship each of them had with thechildren. In about March 2005, the wife movedfrom R to the Albury/Wodongaregion, a distance of about 70 kilometres, and rented a four bedroom home. Theparties had lived togetherin R and in late 2005, the husband moved to live inMelbourne. Itwas the husband who began the litigation. According to the wife and this wasnot challenged, on 15 March 2005, the parties metat a hotel to discuss aparenting plan and reached agreement. The husband was to have the children eachalternate weekend and hewas to do the travelling. It was at that time however,the wife told the husband she was pregnant. The very next day, the husbandmadean application on an ex parte basis for interim orders that the children livewith him based on the fact that he said that thewife told him she wascontemplating suicide. The wife denied that conversation ever occurred. Shealso denied that she had everbeen suicidal or suffered from depression. Therewas no evidence before me that there had ever been any such problem. Accordingly,on 16 March 2005, the husband filed the urgent application apparently with theassistance of a pro bono lawyer. Thatday, the matter came on before Young Jand the proceedings were adjourned to enable the matter to be drawn to theattention of thewife. Thehusbands subsequent behaviour towards the wife precipitated anapplication by the wife for an apprehended violence orderin the Local Court andthe order was made on 2 May 2005. On6 May 2005, the wife filed her application for the children to live with her aswell as property settlement. On 28 June 2005,the parties reached agreement andorders were made that the children live with the wife and the husband haveregular time with them. Mattersremained quiet then until the birth of G in October 2005. The matters howeverwere unresolved because the case was proceedingthrough the system. On 13December 2005, the parties again reached agreement in respect of propertymatters and orders were made. On28 November 2006, almost a year later, the husband made an application for G tospend two days out of every 14 with him and otherorders as well. By this time,the relationship between the parties was non-existent and the wife sought ordersfor the changeoverof the children to occur at a contact centre. Other ordersincluding injunctions about alcohol and non-denigration were also sought. On26 February 2007, Watt J made orders for the appointment of an IndependentChildrens Lawyer and for G to have time withher father at the contactcentre. One month later, Senior Registrar Fitzgibbon made orders by consent ofthe parties concerningG. On25 June 2007, the husband filed a contravention application against the wife buthe failed to attend on the return date beforeYoung J on 12 July 2007 and theproceedings were dismissed. Ultimately,a pre-trial conference in the case was held on 1 November 2007 at which point intime the wife filed an amended responseseeking various orders to which I shallrefer and the husband was ordered to file his material which he did as late as21 November2007. Itwould be obvious that the litigation has done absolutely nothing to assist inthe parties resolving their personal relationship. THE EVIDENCE OF THE WIFE Inthe proceedings, the wife was the respondent. She was calm, articulate,child-focussed and thoughtful. Even allowing for thehusband being notrepresented by a lawyer, I could not find any fault not only with her evidencebut also with her approach to parenting. In his final address, the husbandendeavoured to point out that the picture painted by the wife was flawed butthere was no evidenceto support his assertions. Just to be clear, I did warnthe husband about how the evidentiary process worked and explained the ruleinJones & Dunkeld. Hence, there is no basis for me to determine thematter other than on the evidence. Thewifes evidence was that there was no basis for the application being madeby the husband on an ex parte basis in March2005 and I have to concede that Ihave some serious concerns about how it occurred. However,what then began, I can only describe as a disastrous relationship between thehusband and the wife. I use the word disastrousbecause theimpact directly and indirectly on these three children has been obvious even ifthe husband could not see it. Whetherthat continues into the future depends onthe husband. It is time he thought about the children and gotover his failedrelationship with his wife. He would disagree with theassertion that the relationship is still causing problems. In my view heiswrong. Betweenthe issue of the ex parte application and one month later, the husband sentnumerous text messages to the wife sometimes overthirty times a day. Themessages are set out in her affidavit but they are at worst, sinister andthreatening and at best, unhelpfuland unpleasant. Ishall set out in some detail in the following passages some of the behaviour ofthe husband which would test the patience of anyperson let alone any parent. However, in cross-examination, the wife acknowledged that she has now got to thepoint where she doesnot take seriously many of the things that the husbandsays. However, back in March 2005, bearing in mind that the wife had justtoldthe husband that she was pregnant, I am satisfied that on the unchallengedevidence, the husband threatened to assault the wifeif she did not have anabortion. That precipitated the apprehended violence order to which I havereferred. Notwithstandingall of that, on 10 March 2006, the parties attended a mediation session andreached agreement. There is some disputeabout what was agreed but I amsatisfied on the evidence that: (a) the husband was to spend timewith G supervised by the contact centre for one hour per fortnight for a periodof three months; (b) the husband was then to spend two hours per fortnight for a period ofnine months supervised by the contact centre; (c) thereafter, the parties were to attend mediation to renegotiate the timebetween the husband and G. Whatwas disputed but I accept the wifes version was that this arrangement wasnot to start until the husband had formalisedthe agreement in consent orders. That did not happen. Thereafter,the wife set out a litany of actions by the husband which he did not challenge. In fact, he seemed rather unconcernedabout them because they occurred as aresult of what he described as his health or his inability to comply. I rejectthose explanationsbut even if I accepted that there was some foundation forthem, there are two strident criticisms I must make that are warranted. Theyare: (a) the husband did not communicate properly or at all with thewife about these problems; and (b) the children were either embroiled in the parenting dispute if they werewith the husband at the time or were badly let down bythe husband if they werenot with him. Lookingcarefully at the way that the wife gave her evidence and the husbandscross-examination of her, added to which I havehad the advantage of observingthe husband, I can only say that the wife is a person of extraordinary patience. Thelitany to which I have referred is as follows. Between November 2005 andFebruary 2007, the husband on numerous occasions deliveredthe two boys back tothe wife as much as a day late, took the children to the local police station on30 April 2006 at around middayrather than return them as he was supposed tohave done so at the contact service at 4.00pm causing the police to require thewifeto come and collect them. The husband even returned the children to thewife at a court hearing in relation to the apprehended violenceorder ratherthan fulfil his obligations at the contact centre. The involvement of thepolice meant that their resources were unnecessarilyput under strain becausethey attended at the husbands Melbourne residence to find out why he hadnot returned the childrenand the husband was not to be found. The followingday, at the court, the husband returned the children to the wife. On8 October 2006, the husband did not return the children as required and thefollowing day, the wife applied for a recovery orderfrom the Local Court. Rather than proceed with the application, a court staff member telephoned thehusband and upon that beingdone, the husband returned the children on thefollowing day, Tuesday, at 1.30pm. On12 November 2006, again, the husband did not return the children to the contactcentre. As the centre was not open on Monday orTuesdays, in discussions withthe husband who I accept on the wifes evidence had effectively deliveredthe wife an ultimatum,returned the children to her at the centre when it wasopen on the Wednesday. I shall turn to the husbands explanation aboutthis in a moment but his response was unacceptable and bizarre. On10 December 2006, the husband again did not return the children to the contactcentre. He delivered them to the wife at 11.00pmthat night simply droppingthem off and allowing the children to come into the house unattended and withoutexplanation. On28 January 2007, contrary to the rules of the contact centre, the husbanddropped the children off at the car park across the roadfrom the centre tellingthem to head into the centre. Apart from being contrary to the rules, thecontact centre was very criticalof the husband for that. That precipitated thecontact centre refusing to allow the husband to access the centre any further. Allof this culminated in orders made by Watt J on 26 February 2007. His Honourthere ordered that the husbands time withthe boys was suspended until here-engaged the services of the contact centre. The husband was required as acondition of the orderto telephone the service to confirm that his intentionwas to collect them at the appropriate time. Duringall of this time, there was a significant problem with the husband having anytime with the child G because he was not complyingwith the orders forattendance at the centre. In the husbands own words, he had norelationship with the child. Oneof the orders that was made by Senior Registrar Fitzgibbon on 23 March 2007 wasfor the wife to travel to Melbourne whereuponsupervision of the time betweenthe husband and G would take place with his family members. It was conditionalupon the husbandproviding $100 for the wifes travel. Even that seemedto be a problem. The husband very much disputed the wifes versionof allof this but I am satisfied that at the urging of the IndependentChildrens Lawyer, the wife opened a separate bankaccount to ensure thatthe money would be received and records kept but nothing had been paid. Herobligation to travel was thereforeobviated. Similarproblems seemed to have arisen in relation to telephone time between the husbandand the children and the wife has now gotto the stage where she has a specificmobile telephone so that the children can be contacted and the husband is theonly person whowould be telephoning that number. The husband accused the wifeconsistently of not having that telephone on and in cross-examination,the wifeindicated that there would be various times where she may have forgotten to putit on at the appointed time around 6.00pmwhen the husband would call but it wasnot far from that time when she turned it on. Her explanation was plausible andin my viewacceptable. She went on to say that whenever the husband had theboys in his care, the mobile phone was on all of the time. Throughout2007, the problems to which I have referred above continued. This is all in theface of orders that were quite precise. Notwithstandingthe orders had been made in March, the husband did not return the children onSunday 25 March as he was required. He delivered them on midday on thefollowing day to the local police station. The obvious consequence was that thechildren misseda day of school. More importantly, the husband had noopportunity to spend time with G. Equally importantly however, the late returnof the children could only have given them the impression that the way theirfather did things was what mattered regardless of thebenefit that they wouldhave received in attending school and also being a part of the disciplinedhousehold of the wife. InMay 2007, the husband indicated to the wife that he was not going to go to thecontact centre and see G because of a particularsupervisor that he didntlike. When the wife urged him to comply with the conditions of the courtorders, she said and thiswas unchallenged: The husband repliedIll do what I like. No-ones going to tell me what to do. Shes my daughter and Illdo what I want. Onlydays later, the husband telephoned the wife and said that he was going to be inthe Albury/Wodonga area and that he would pickthe children up from school. Again very sensibly in my view, the wife required the husband to comply with theorders and collectthe children from the contact centre. It transpires thatnotwithstanding that, the husband went to the school at lunch time andspoke toM. The husband then had someone at 3.45pm attend the wifes premises,asking to pick up the children because he wasa friend of the husband. Thehusband did not seem to get the message. The wife took the children to thecontact centre and theywere collected by the husband at 4.30pm as required. OnMothers Day 2007, the wife returned to the contact centre to collect thechildren at the end of the day to find that thehusband had left a message thathe wasnt going to return them but that he would come to the local policestation the followingday. They were and the wife missed out on seeing thechildren on Mothers Day. This was the subject of some cross-examinationbut I am satisfied that the husband missed the point. Whenthe wife attended at the local police station on the day after MothersDay, she was met with a message from the husbandvia the Australia FederalPolice to say that he was not driving all of the way to the Albury/Wodongaregion because of his poor eyesight. He said he would drive halfway and thatthe wife should meet him half way. The wife had to approach her solicitor torespond tothat and ultimately, the children were returned by the husband to thelocal police station on the next day. The children had thenmissed two days ofschool and again, were embroiled in a parental dispute caused by thehusband. Ishall not set out all of the incidents that occurred throughout 2007 but it ishard to see any specific period of time where thingswent smoothly. Aslate as August 2007, the husband on two periods which were 14 days apart,arranged for a person in the local area to pick up thechildren from the contactcentre on the basis that they were then to be delivered to the husband inMelbourne. On each occasion,that person did not arrive and consequently, thewife and the children were left waiting and wondering. DuringAugust, as a result of a telephone conversation between the husband and thechildren, the wife said that the children approachedher to inquire whethertheir father could collect them from school on the following Friday. Thehusband reiterated that subjectduring a conversation with the children in themiddle of the week but this time he had moved from a question to a statement. Accordingto the wife, and this was unchallenged, the children said: Dad is picking us up from school tomorrow because we are goingcamping with him this weekend. Contraryto the orders, the husband attended school on the Thursday and unilaterally tookthe children out of school for the Friday. Even with the most obvious protest,the wife could do little with two very excited boys. It appears on her evidencethat so excitedwere they, that D in particular was poorly behaved all day atschool. D has problems of a behavioural nature at school and doesnot need thatsort of whip hand. InSeptember 2007, the husband had the children. The wife was away with herfamily. At about 1.00pm on the Sunday, the wife receiveda call from thehusband indicating that he would drop the children back at her house in about1 hours. This again was contraryto the orders. According to the wife,and this was not challenged by the husband, she told him that she was not in thearea andcould not arrive at the time that he expected. At about 2.30pm, thewife received a call from the contact service to say that thechildren had justwalked into the centre by themselves. It was obviously fortuitous that thecontact centre knew who the boys wereand probably more importantly, who theywere dealing with. Of real concern however, is the fact that the husband didnot go intothe centre with the children. He just dropped them and left. Aweek later, there was a further incident but this time involving the localpolice who had attended responding to a call from thehusband. The husband hadcomplained that on the weekend before when the children were with him, they hadalleged that their maternalgrandfather hit them and hurt their little sister. Where that complaint had come from, one can only speculate but in any event,thesubject at no stage was raised with the wife. The husband is to be criticisedfor such an approach. Thewife referred to an incident on the last day of Term 3 of school. In the dayspreceding that, the children told the wife thattheir father was going tocollect them from school. No discussion took place with the wife. The wifespoke to the school principal. According to the wife, the principal did notwant his staff embroiled in a dispute and the wife resignedly accepted theinevitable. The husband collected the children about 2.00pm. At the conclusionof the holiday period, the husband went to the contact centredespite tellingthe wife he would deliver the children to the police station. Notwithstandingthe lack of entitlement to do so,the husband just left the children at thecentre expecting their staff to make arrangements with the wife. Thehusbands only cross-examination of the wife was about why she wanted tolimit his role. He asked what she saw as thatrole and she replied for him tobe a responsible father, a male figure for the children and a willingness tocomply with orders. Ironically, the husband asked the wife about an incidentover two years ago where D left the wife at a shopping centre and walkedhome byhimself. Despite D being missing, the wife had not called the police. Theinference was clear; the wife was an irresponsibleparent. If that was theintention of the husband, his audacity is breathtaking. Thewifes basis for seeking sole parental responsibility was thehusbands lack of cooperation, his capacity to createconflict and hisobstructive behaviour. In respect of these issues, the wife pointed to thehusbands refusal to sign Gsbirth certificate, his threat tocancel any school enrolment that did not suit him and his behaviour about theorders. Thewifes guarded approach to the husband was understandable. She referredto the fact that he scared her. There is still a concern aboutwhether the husband will be civil and respectful at the contact centre. Thesematters affect thequestion of the default position of the orders. Inrespect of the husbands demand for the wife to assist him by travelling,she pointed to the absence of child support. Ifound the husbandsattitude puzzling because he told me he could contribute $100 towards thewifes petrol yet he describedhimself as a Centrelink recipient who paid$12.76 per fortnight child support. According to the wife, not even thesepayments wereresponsibly made. Asfor the husbands parenting capacity, the wife pointed to a number ofincidents. The children told her that they drove inthe back of a van withoutseats let alone seat belts. The husband dismissed this as not significantbecause it was only a distanceof about a kilometre. Thewife referred to the children telling her they had been driven in a police carwhen the husbands girlfriend was apprehendedon a camping trip whilstdriving affected by alcohol. The husbands response was that hisgirlfriend was only driving to apublic toilet at a camping ground. Thewife referred to the children telling her that they watched at least one moviecalled Evil Dead and it subsequentlyaffected their sleeping. Thehusbands response was that they watched that with some neighbouringchildren and children beingwhat they were, he could not monitor all of thesesorts of things. Thechildren were also severely sunburnt despite being provided by the wife withrash vests and sunhats during Christmas 2005. Thewife complained that she sent clothing with the children only to not have itreturned. One example was that she had bought footballboots and the husbanddid not return them. When questioned about it, the husband said that it was hewho took the boys to Footballpractice so he would be the one to use the bootsregardless of the fact that he saw them on such a limited number of occasions. Thewife also pointed to the husbands approach about passports and holidaysin which he indicated he would take the childrenoverseas yet his professedfinancial position would belie his capacity to do so. Thehusband did not dispute the many complaints of the wife. When these matterswere put to him, he acknowledged the incidents butgave a very clear impressionthat he saw no basis for the wifes complaint. THE HUSBANDS EVIDENCE Ihave pointed out that the husband was ordered on 1 November 2007 to file hismaterial by 8 November 2007. As with most mattersrequiring time constraints,the husband seems to either have no understanding or deliberately does what hefeels like. He filedhis affidavit on 21 November 2007. I indicated that apartfrom many of the paragraphs being irrelevant, they epitomised how thehusbandreally felt about the wife. Before setting out what he said in that affidavit,it is important to note two observations. Incross-examination by Mr OShannessy for the Independent ChildrensLawyer, the husband conceded that he thought himselfa blunt person who spokehis mind. I used the expression that he often put his brain in neutral and hismouth in first gear. Thatresonated with the husband. He agreed he hadfired off a bit but in so doing, he failed to see the impact hewas havingon various people. The second observation is that the husband can attimes appear amiable, humorous and respectful. He telephonedthe Court on thefirst listed day to say that he had started out from Melbourne and it was toohard on his eyes and so he turnedback. He contacted the Court to requestpermission to go into the Melbourne Registry and have the case heard byvideo-link. I declined. I gave him the opportunity to get to Court but histardiness meant that he lost his place in the queue. Rather than beingconcernedabout the inconvenience and cost to other parties and practitioners,his only concern was that his friend had worked night shiftand had driven himup and had to return to Melbourne. His lack of concern for others even allowingfor the tyranny of distance,was something I found hard to accept. Turningthen to the husbands affidavit, the following statementsappear: [The wife] is a woman that has been spoilt by herfamily her whole life who lives in a fictional land. I stayed with [the wife] for what reason to this day I do not know. [The wife]s mother was gravely ill with breastcancer and later died ofcancer. I stuck it out with [the wife] in the hope that she would change oreven not be so jealous of myfemale friendships. [The wife] is a very strange person in a lot of ways as she cravesaffection and cannot function without it. [The wife] would often ask to get married to me and I rejected her onmany occasion. I do not hate [the wife], I just dontwant her in my lifeas I have moved on and found a better life with someone else who I callnormal. In relation to her making all these accusations that I am this andthat well I strongly suggest [the wife] does not know meat all so I find herthoughts wrong in many ways. I had had enough of her and could not stomach the sight of her or tobe with her any longer. [The wife] then proceeded when we separated to be a vindictive personin the sense that she would not let me see [M] and [D]at all for a period ofabout eight weeks. [The wife]s lies and past are no longer prevalent in my lifenow. To sum up my background with [the wife] is to say I made aterrible mistake by staying with her and wished I had notmether. Thehusband then set out some facts such as that M broke his leg and D broke hiswrists. These were under the heading Mothers(sic) care. Inrelation to the broken wrists incident, the child was seriously hurt. When theambulance was contacted immediatelyand had arrived, the wife immediatelytelephoned the husband to tell him of the injury. Notwithstandingall of those matters, the husband in his affidavit went on tosay: At some stage I may look at going for custody of the two boysso that discipline can be put in place and some respect for others learnt. The only comment that I can make in respect of those last few words is thatperhaps the husband should have some introspective examinationof his ownposition. The husband then went on in the affidavit to say: I am sick of it being a constant battle with [the wife] in regards to theaccess of these boys. Court orders are there to be fairand reasonable butthere are times when I need the boys for sports events I have organised forthem. I would like them to ride inthe [...] motor cross race and needsweekends alternated at times. It is hard not to see that last comment as describing a person who fails toacknowledge his responsibilities as a parent and whois very parent-focussedrather than child-focussed. Thehusband filed a financial statement as ordered. He made no mention of his newpartner and her financial position. He said hisonly income was Newstart. Hedescribed having no assets. Apartfrom the fact that when cross-examined, he gave disarmingly honest answers in acandid way, the impression the husband otherwisegave was that the requests ofthe wife were an unreasonable imposition on him. For example, when the husbandvisited D in hospitalas a result of his broken wrists, the husbandsconcern was to be able to take D away on his weekend. The husband disputedthatsaying he was just inquiring about the childs capacity to travel. Ireject that. The wife gave evidence about the factthat the medical staff wereconcerned about what the husband was doing and I have no reason to disbelieveher. Iinvited the husband before being cross-examined to assist me with some evidenceabout the issues that I had to determine. He thoughtcarefully about what I hadasked him and commented that he wanted to have a role in all aspects of the lifeof his children and tobe able to help them with various issues. He said thatmaybe in the future, he and the wife could go to mediation to work somethingoutabout such things as schooling. Iasked the husband whether there was a problem about communication and he saidthat the parties did communicate although sometimesit was not thebest. Iasked him to give an explanation as to why he had not picked up and/or returnedthe children as alleged by the wife. He said thathe spent a lot of time with afriend whose children were killed in an accident and he had thought about thesethings. I presumedhe was referring to the fact that on one occasion, he hadspent time with this grieving parent rather than returning the children. Hethen went on to say that other explanations for his tardiness were that he wastoo tired or he was working. Incross-examination, the husband gave details about his partner of eight months. No mention was made of her because in his view,the case had nothing to do withher. That was notwithstanding his partner cared for the children when he workedduring holiday timesfor example. Thehusband acknowledged that he was behind in child-support and said that that nodoubt would affect the wife. He was asked aboutan application he made toCentrelink for a share of the family tax benefit and he readily acknowledgedthat he had done that becausehis accountant told him to do so. This was a manwho was apparently unemployed yet had an accountant. Itwas put to the husband that his correspondence to the wife at times wasinsulting. He said in reply: No, not always.Having said that, heacknowledged having referred to the wife as it and thewitch. He used words todescribe the wife as mad. I had the opportunityto watch the wifes demeanour and I can only say what I have earlier saidabout her patience. The demeaning language was said in the presence of thechildren but the husbands explanation was thathe was running late to getback to Melbourne to the football because the wife had kept him. As forparenting, the husband was askedwhether he felt it was important for thechildren to see him as supportive of what the wife was doing as a parent. Hisresponsewas Thats your assumption. Thehusband acknowledged tardiness about letting the contact centre and the wifeknow about his movements. He seemed oblivious tothe fact that other peoplewere trying to work around him. Inanother bizarre incident, the husband reported the wife to the police concernedabout her mental state because she had allowedhim to retain the children longerthan he should have. He failed to understand the wifes resignedresponding behaviour. He said he found it strange that the wife did not want tosee the children back. Thehusband took the children to the Federal Police to ensure that he would not getinto trouble. Fundamentally, he failed to seethat his failure to contact thewife was the issue. He passed responsibility for his actions to other people. Inone telling piece of cross-examination, it was put to the husband that he variedarrangements to suit himself. He denied thatsaying he varied them according tohis health. Whenasked about an incident in which he dropped the children outside the contactcentre, he retorted that he had watched them walkinside. Ihave no doubt in finding that the husband used the contact centre to get what hewanted. He spoke to them on the telephone andcreated a fait accompli puttingthe wife in a position where she had little choice but to agree with what he wasdoing. Aclear difficulty has been in the husband creating any relationship with thechild G. Despite the orders of the Court, he has notavailed himself of theopportunity. I accept it would have been difficult if not inconvenient but hisdedication to the parentingtask was lacking. When asked about an occasion whenhe arrived at the contact centre where G was with the wife, he ignored her andbundled the boys in the car because he was running late. When asked why thathad always occurred, his response was that ten minutestime with his child wasinsulting. It is appropriate to remember that in the proceedings before me, thehusband has been seekingto have G all day on both a Saturday and a Sunday. Gis a child with whom he acknowledges he has no relationship. He offered somesupervisors but they equally have no relationship with G. Inrelation to the incident where the husband had arranged for someone else to pickup the children to which I referred earlier, hewas asked about how the wifeshould view her children going off in a car with someone she did not know. Hisresponse was that thechildren knew this woman. According to the husband, thewoman did not attend and therefore let him down. She apparently was goingthrough her own separation problems. Thehusband also acknowledged that he put the wife and children in an invidiousposition because he said that unless the wife cameto the half way point, hewould not be able to see them. Asked about whether he saw anyone at fault aboutthat sort of concept,he replied it was 50 per cent his fault and 50 per centher fault. Thehusband was challenged about the fact that the children watched his behaviourand consequently had no respect for their mother. His response was almostunbelievable when he said: I dont treat their mother with a lackof respect. Thesame lack of respect is apparent in the husbands behaviour towards theIndependent Childrens Lawyer. I found hiscorrespondence insulting,unnecessary and offensive. Counselfor the Independent Childrens Lawyer challenged the husband about hisfinancial position. He conceded he did workfor himself and on some jobs,employed people as part of a team. I find it hard to accept that the financialstatement accuratelyreflects his financial position. That obviously affectsnot only his obligation to pay child support but also his capacity to travel. Finally,the husband made much of the fact that the travel had affected his eye sight andit was that that he blamed for his inabilityto attend at times to collect andreturn the children. I reject that. The husband was invited to produce medicalevidence and nothingwas forthcoming. When he described his problems aspoor eye condition, he was really talking about tiredness. Thatgives rise to my concern about the amount of travel involved for these childrenover a weekend. At the end, the husband concededthat once a month was all hewanted and I suspect, that is all the children can handle. Thehusbands position was that he and the wife should alternate the monthlytravel. I reject that on the basis of the wifesfinances, thehusbands financial contributions and the husbands unreliability. Asfor the contact centre, the husband was opposed to that. Having regard to theway he has behaved, I have every reason to acceptthe basis of the wifesfear and concern. I think the police station is an inappropriate place becauseit gives the childrenthe wrong impression. At least the contact centreenvironment is a place where they can be distracted. Asfor the joint decision making, the husband articulated a desire to work thingsout cooperatively but his actions speak louder thanwords. I could not expectthat any decision relating to the major decisions in the childrens liveswill be approached bythe husband on the basis that he would respectfully andseriously consider the wifes position. EVIDENCE OF THE FAMILY CONSULTANT MsB did a report on 26 October 2007 which I received into evidence. She wascross-examined by telephone. MsB observed the wife and the children but had to be content with discussion withthe husband by telephone. That was entirely thehusbands own doing. MsB made an appointment to meet the husband in Melbourne but he could not evenkeep that. Thereport sets out many of the concerns which I have already recorded above. MsB said: [The husband]s presentation (albeit being restrictedto telephone calls) was contradictory. He seemed capable of being bothcharmingand convincing yet also verbally intimidating and rather abusive. He made someplausible statements about the dispute andhis difficulties; and invited me todrop into his home in [...] for a coffee and to stay for a roast dinner afterhis non-attendanceat interview. MsB went on to record some concerns particularly about the way the husband did notseem to have any insight into his behaviour. She said: This findingarouses concerns about the childrens emotional welfare, regarding [thehusband]; although undoubtedly he lovesthe boys and they love him. His immenseantagonism towards and avoidance of [the wife] and his non-compliance withnegotiated arrangementsmay unsettle and confuse the boys; model anti-socialbehaviour to them; damage their self esteem; place them in an impossibledivisionof loyalty between their parents; and undermine their respect for theirmothers parental authority. He seemed unable to realisethat making lifedifficult for [the wife] also harms the boys. Nosimilar concerns were expressed by Ms B about the wife. Shesaid: The childrens observed behaviour was typical of theirages and states of development; and they each appeared healthy, mentallybrightand physically active. Inher evaluation, the family consultant said: [G]s tender yearsand associated needs for care and comfort, when combined with [thehusband]s track record with herbrothers, indicates that it is not in herbest interests to spend time with [the husband] away from [the wife] and inunfamiliarsettings. ... The boys enjoy their visits with [the husband] and these visits shouldcontinue, consistent with appropriate changeover arrangementsand [thehusband]s availability and psychological capacity to care for [D] and[M]. Finally Ms B about the children: Their relationship with [the husband] is very important to [D] and [M]. Theyalso live in [the Albury/Wodonga region] and it wouldhelp if [the husband] tookan active interest in spending time with his sons in their home city, as well ashis own. [The husband]is strongly urged to think carefully about what messageshis conduct to date gives the boys. Ipropose to determine the matters on the basis of all of this material which inmy view is overwhelming. Atthe conclusion of the case, counsel for the Independent Childrens Lawyerindicated that he had been given instructions byLegal Aid NSW to make anapplication for costs against the husband on the basis that the wife hadcompleted the necessary paperworkand obtained a waiver. The husbandsresponse was simply to oppose the application but if I was against him, he saidthat heneeded time to pay it off. Beforelooking at the parenting orders that I propose to make, I propose to deal withthe cost issue. Section117 of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) (the Act)requires that each party bear their own costs unless the situation justifies adeparture from thatposition. In my view, the unreasonable behaviour of thehusband has protracted these proceedings and had he behaved other than hehas,the proceedings would not have been as difficult. This is a very clearsituation in which the normal rule should be departedfrom. Section117 however goes on to say that I am obliged to take into account the factorsset out in the that section. One of the most importantfactors is the financialposition of the party against whom the costs are sought. I have no doubt that Ihave not been given anaccurate picture of the husbands financialposition. Notwithstanding the fact that he avows he is unemployed and receivingCentrelink benefits, he has an accountant acting for him in relation to hisbusiness interests and he conceded that at times he hadworkmen employed as partof a team. He seems to have no obligations in his home life and he pays minimalchild support so I canonly presume that any money that he otherwise earns as aself-employed contractor is for his own benefit. He was very quick to offertopay $100 towards the petrol costs of the wife if she was prepared to contributetowards the travel. On that basis, I am satisfiedthat it is appropriate to makean order for costs of the amount sought namely $3943. As to the payment ofthose sums, it is a matterentirely for the Director of Legal Aid NSW to recoverthem but it will be the husbands responsibility to make arrangementswiththe Director in relation to how that sum is to bepaid. DISCUSSION BecauseI intend to make parenting orders, s 61DA requires that I apply a presumptionthat it is in the best interests of the children for their parents to have equalshared parentalresponsibility. This exercise needs to be undertaken before thedetermination of any parenting order. The presumption however maybe rebuttedin one of two circumstances. The first is if there has been family violence. The evidence in this case is not entirelyclear and in many ways, that does notmatter. More importantly, s 61DA(4) says that the presumption need not apply ifit would not be in the best interests of the children for the Court to apply it.In myview, this is a classic example of a situation where it would not be inthe best interests of the children for the presumption tobe appliednotwithstanding the fact that the husband is not seeking equal time or evensubstantial and significant time. Accordinglytherefore, I find that the presumption is rebutted. PARENTING ORDERS Asto what parenting order I should then make, it is important to look firstly atthe objects and principles of Part VII of the Act. Theobjects and principles from which the provisions of Part VII are to be appliedare set out in s 60B, which provides: (1) The objects of this Partare to ensure that the best interests of children are met by: (a) ensuring that children have the benefit of both of their parents havinga meaningful involvement in their lives, to the maximumextent consistent withthe best interests of the child; and (b) protecting children from physical or psychological harm from beingsubjected to, or exposed to, abuse, neglect or family violence;and (c) ensuring that children receive adequate and proper parenting to helpthem achieve their full potential; and (d) ensuring that parents fulfil their duties, and meet theirresponsibilities, concerning the care, welfare and development of theirchildren. (2) The principles underlying these objects are that (except when it is orwould be contrary to a childs best interests): (a) children have the right to know and be cared for by both their parents,regardless of whether their parents are married, separated,have never marriedor have never lived together; and (b) children have a right to spend time on a regular basis with, andcommunicate on a regular basis with, both their parents andother peoplesignificant to their care, welfare and development (such as grandparents andother relatives); and (c) parents jointly share duties and responsibilities concerning the care,welfare and development of their children; and (d) parents should agree about the future parenting of their children;and (e) children have a right to enjoy their culture (including the right toenjoy that culture with other people who share that culture).Section60B alsomakes provision for an Aboriginal child or Torrens Strait Islander child beingable to enjoy their culture but in this case,that provision does not apply. THE BEST INTERESTS PRINCIPLE Section60CA is fundamental. It says: In deciding whether to make aparticular parenting order in relation to a child, a court must regard the bestinterests of the childas the paramount consideration. Indetermining what is in a childs best interests, s 60CC provides that theCourt must consider the following matters in determining what is in thechilds best interests: Primary considerations (2) The primary considerations are: (a) the benefit to the child of having a meaningful relationship with bothof the childs parents; and (b) the need to protect the child from physical or psychological harm frombeing subjected to, or exposed to, abuse, neglect or familyviolence. Additional considerations (3) Additional considerations are: (a) any views expressed by the child and any factors (such as thechilds maturity or level of understanding) that the courtthinks arerelevant to the weight it should give to the childs views; (b) the nature of the relationship of the child with: (i) each of the childs parents; and (ii) other persons (including any grandparent or other relative of thechild); (c) the willingness and ability of each of the childs parents tofacilitate, and encourage, a close and continuing relationshipbetween the childand the other parent; (d) the likely effect of any changes in the childs circumstances,including the likely effect on the child of any separationfrom: (i) either of his or her parents; or (ii) any other child, or other person (including any grandparent or otherrelative of the child), with whom he or she has been living; (e) the practical difficulty and expense of a child spending time with andcommunicating with a parent and whether that difficultyor expense willsubstantially affect the childs right to maintain personal relations anddirect contact with both parentson a regular basis; (f) the capacity of: (i) each of the childs parents; and (ii) any other person (including any grandparent or other relative of thechild); to provide for the needs of the child, including emotional and intellectualneeds; (g) the maturity, sex, lifestyle and background (including lifestyle,culture and traditions) of the child and of either of the childsparents,and any other characteristics of the child that the court thinks arerelevant; (h) if the child is an Aboriginal child or a Torres Strait Islanderchild: (i) the childs right to enjoy his or her Aboriginal or Torres StraitIslander culture (including the right to enjoy thatculture with other peoplewho share that culture); and (ii) the likely impact any proposed parenting order under this Part willhave on that right; (i) the attitude to the child, and to the responsibilities of parenthood,demonstrated by each of the childs parents; (j) any family violence involving the child or a member of thechilds family; (k) any family violence order that applies to the child or a member of thechilds family, if: (i) the order is a final order; or (ii) the making of the order was contested by a person; (l) whether it would be preferable to make the order that would be leastlikely to lead to the institution of further proceedingsin relation to thechild; (m) any other fact or circumstance that the court thinks is relevant. Section60CC(4) provides: Without limiting paragraphs (3)(c) and (i), thecourt must consider the extent to which each of the childs parents hasfulfilled,or failed to fulfil, his or her responsibilities as a parent and, inparticular, the extent to which each of the childs parents: (a) has taken, or failed to take, the opportunity: (i) to participate in making decisions about major long-term issues inrelation to the child; and (ii) to spend time with the child; and (iii) to communicate with the child;and (b) has facilitated, or failed to facilitate, the other parent: (i) participating in making decisions about major long-term issues inrelation to the child; and (ii) spending time with the child; and (iii) communicating with the child; and (c) has fulfilled, or failed to fulfil, the parents obligation tomaintain the child. Section60CC(4A) provides: If the childs parents have separated, thecourt must, in applying subsection (4), have regard, in particular, to eventsthathave happened, and circumstances that have existed, since the separationoccurred. TheCourt is exhorted to ensure the best interests of the children are met byensuring that they have the benefit of their parentshaving a meaningfulinvolvement in their lives and s 60CD requires the Court to regard the bestinterests of the children as paramount. In determining what is in the bestinterests of thechildren, the Court is obliged to turn to s 60CC. It is aprimary consideration for the children to have the benefit of a meaningfulrelationship with the parents. Much dependson how the husband approaches thatsubject from now on particularly having regard to his own position as seeing thechildren onlyon a monthly basis. That relates obviously to the boys but inrespect of G, much depends on what attitude the husband adopts inrelation tothe orders that I propose to make giving him an opportunity as well as G todevelop some form of relationship on a veryslow and gradual basis. Itis clear from the report of the family consultant that there is a relationshipof a meaningful nature between the husband and theboys and it will really be amatter for him as to how he develops that in the future. Whilst he espousesthat he wants to be a significantpart in their life, he must understand howdestructive of the relationship with their mother his behaviour is if he failsto showher respect and courtesy. SECTION 60CC FACTORS Iam quite satisfied that the mother would do anything to encourage a properrelationship between father and children. I have nodifficulty with her conductin these proceedings. Ihave taken little account of the views of the children in this case because oftheir ages and level of maturity. Their views cancarry very littleweight. Ihave considered the nature of the relationship of each of the parents with thechildren and can only say that I am satisfied thatthe other has a goodrelationship with them and that the husband has much to learn. Whilst he seemsto enjoy the rough and tumbleof parenting, the hard yards of being aresponsible parent are clearly lacking. Nothing was so evident as at the end inhis finaladdress when he was critical of the mother at a time when the fingerwas really being pointed at him by counsel for the IndependentChildrensLawyer as the cause of most of the problems of these children. Section60CC requires a consideration of the willingness and ability of each of theparents to facilitate and encourage a close and continuingrelationship betweenthe children and the other parent. I accept that the wife has facilitated andwill continue to facilitate therelationship between the children and thehusband but it is really a matter for him to reciprocate. I am quite satisfiedthat atthis stage, he is deliberately destructive of the relationship betweenthe children and their mother and that it is only throughher patience anddedication that after the periods of time he has spent with them, she is able toget them back into a normal routine. I am comforted by the fact that thehusband does not seek much more than a monthly visit with these children on thebasis of whichthe children will have an opportunity to settle and learn lifeskills that they are clearly not learning from the husband. Ihave considered the effect on the children of separation from the husband butthere is little I can do about that having regardto his chosen course ofaction. Ihave considered the question of the practicalities and the difficulties of thehusband continuing a relationship with the childrenand the time that he wishesto spend with them and I do not accept that he has convinced me in any way ofany medical condition precludinghim from having a proper relationship with thechildren. I appreciate very much that he has a four hour drive from Melbournetothe Albury/Wodonga region but he could, should he so desire, spend time withthe children in the Albury/Wodonga region as has beensuggested by the familyconsultant. His response was that he simply hated the Albury/Wodonga region. Again, he places his needsbefore those of the children. Asignificant feature of s 60CC(3)(f) relates to the capacity of parents toprovide for the needs of the children including emotional and intellectualneeds. I am satisfiedthat the wife has done the task well up until now and Isee no reason for that to change in the future. Unfortunately, I cannotsay thesame for the husband. Hopefully, as a result of some of these remarks, he willget his act together and realise the damagethat he is doing to the children. He desperately needs to read the remarks of the family consultant. It isinteresting again toreflect upon the fact that he is the only person in thismarching group who is out of step. Thequestions of the maturity, sex, lifestyle and background together with anycultural issues in this case do not apply. Anothersignificant feature of s 60CC relates to the attitude of the parents towards thechildren as well as to their responsibilities of parenthood as they have beendemonstrated. I would only be repeating myself to say that the husband has muchto learn but I have no concerns about the wifesconduct. In relation toher attitude, she has adopted a patient and responsible approach toparenting. TheAct requires me to examine the issues of family violence and family violenceorders. There has been an apprehended violence orderin this case although ithas now expired. I have every reason to accept the wifes concerns abouther own fears of the husbandsconduct. That is a matter about which heneeds to do some soul searching. It must adversely impact upon thechildren. Itis timely to remember the words of Chisholm J in JG & BF (1994) FLC92-515 where his Honour said: For children to grow up in a climateof a potentially violent and dominating relationship between their parents seemsto me to bean unacceptable model of family relationships and would be verylikely to create a situation of stress and fear that may well bedamaging over aperiod. It is quite wrong in my opinion, to assume that violence can berelevant only if it is directed at the childrenor takes place in theirpresence. Iam also obliged to consider whether it would be preferable to make an order thatwould be least likely to lead to further proceedings. For the sake of thechildren being able to settle quickly and also to get on with their lives in thearea where they live and goto school, I propose to make orders which arerestrictive including to the effect that the husband will have time suspended ifhefails to honour his obligations. The children do not need to be left in thelurch waiting for their father who not only fails toattend but also fails toadvise anybody that he is not coming. Iam also obliged under Part VII of the Act to consider what the parents have donesubsequent to separation. I think I have set thosematters out adequately andthere is little more that I can add other than to say that I am satisfied thatthe mother has facilitatedthe relationship between the father and the childrenbut the father has not been diligent in this area. Accordingly,I propose to make the orders as I have indicated. In my view they are in thebest interests of these children. I certify that the precedingOne Hundred and Twenty Six (126) paragraphs are a true copy of the reasons forjudgment of the HonourableJustice Cronin Associate Date: 29 November 2007 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2007/1396.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          