FAMILY LAW  CHILDABDUCTION  Hague convention  Application adjourned Family Law (Child Abduction Convention) Regulations 1986 Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) APPLICANT: State Central Authority; Department Of Human Services RESPONDENT: Ms Hunt FILENUMBER: MLC 8095 of 2014 DATE DELIVERED: 12 September 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Melbourne PLACE HEARD: Melbourne JUDGMENT OF: Cronin J HEARING DATE: 12 September 2014 REPRESENTATION SOLICITORS FOR THE APPLICANT: Ms Accornero; Department of Human Services; StateCentral Authority ORDERS (1) THATleave is granted to the applicant to proceed ex parte with orders interms of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of the application filed on 10 September2014. (2) THAT the application be amended at paragraph f (iv) to March 2014. (3) THAT the application be adjourned for further hearing on 29 September 2014at 9:00am. (4) THAT the applicant effect service of the application and this Order on therespondent mother as soon as practicable. (5) THAT in the event that the respondent mother has been served with theapplication by the adjourned date: (a) she fileand serve an affidavit in response to the application indicating her defence tothe application no later than 26 September2014; (b) she fileand serve a Notice for Address for Service; and (c) she attendCourt personally on 29 September 2014 at 9:00am and remain at Court pendingfurther order of the Court. (6) THAT until further order, the respondent mother, her servants or agents berestrained by injunction from causing or permittingor suffering the childrenL born ... June 2007, K born ... May 2009 and O born ...May 2009 and E born ... May 2011 (the children): (i) to beremoved from the Commonwealth of Australia, and in this regard all officers ofthe Australian Federal Police be directedto enforce, if required, theprovisions of such order; (ii) to beremoved from the State of Victoria; or (iii) to resideat any address other than their present residential address or any otherresidence at which the applicant has agreedthat the children reside. (7) THAT the Australian Federal Police place the names of the children on theAirport Watch List in force at all points of arrivaland departure in theCommonwealth of Australia and maintain the childrens names on the AirportWatch List until further orderof the Court. (8) THAT the respondent mother, her servants or agents forthwith deliver up tothe Registrar of the Family Court of Australia atMelbourne for safe custody anyand all passports held in the names of the children or upon which the childrenappear and be restrainedfrom applying for any further or other passports forthe children pending further orders of this Court. (9) THAT a sealed copy of these Orders be provided forthwith to the Marshal ofthe Family Court of Australia, the Commissioner ofthe Australian Federal Policeand the Secretary of the Commonwealth Department of Foreign Affairs andTrade. IT IS NOTED that publication of this judgmentby this Court under the pseudonym State Central Authority & Hunt hasbeen approved by the Chief Justice pursuant to s 121(9)(g) of the Family LawAct 1975 (Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT MELBOURNE FILE NUMBER:MLC 8095 of 2014 STATE CENTRALAUTHORITY; DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES Applicant And Ms Hunt Respondent REASONS FOR JUDGMENT Thisis an application under the Family Law (Child Abduction Convention) Regulations1986. The facts asserted by the applicant are that the parents of thesechildren normally resided in New Zealand and separated in August2013. InSeptember 2013, the father travelled to Brisbane to spend some time with hisextended family and some months later, whenhe returned to New Zealand, he couldnot locate his children. He then ascertained through his lawyer that thechildren had leftNew Zealand in December 2013, and he has not been providedwith any details as to contact with the children since October 2013. Havingregard to the fact that the mother appears to have unilaterally cutoff thefather from the children in circumstances whereon the facts of the documents hehas rights of custody, it is appropriate to determine the matter today in theabsence of noticeto the respondent. I certify that thepreceding two (2) paragraphs are a true copy of the reasons for judgment of theHonourable Justice Cronin deliveredon 12 September2014. Associate: Date: 22 October 2014 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/907.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       