FAMILY LAW  CHILDREN the time the child shall spend with the father  where the fatherhas previously sufferedfrom significant mental health issues but his mentalhealth has significantly improved  where the father continues to attendupon a treating psychiatrist  where the father agrees to allow histreating psychiatrist to contact the mother in the eventhis mental healthdeteriorates in a manner which impacts on his capacity to care for the child where the mother asserts thechild is at an unacceptable risk if in thefathers care overnight  where the child has been diagnosed ashaving significantseparation anxiety with school refusal Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) ss 60CA, 65AA, 60B, 65DAB Vigano & Desmond [2012] FamCAFC79 McCall & Clark [2009] FamCAFC 92; (2009) FLC 93-405 Mazorski v Albright [2007] FamCA 520 MRR & GR (2010) 240 CLR 461 APPLICANT: Mr Essex RESPONDENT: Ms Essex FILENUMBER: BRC 5697 of 2011 DATE DELIVERED: 3 October 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Brisbane PLACE HEARD: Brisbane JUDGMENT OF: Hogan J HEARING DATES: 30 & 31 July 2013 and 1 & 2 August 2013 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: Ms McArdle SOLICITOR FOR THE APPLICANT: Phillips Family Law COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENT: Mr Linklater-Steele SOLICITOR FOR THE RESPONDENT: Rice Naughton Buckley ORDERS ITIS ORDERED BY CONSENT ON A FINAL BASIS THAT (1) The child B, born ... 2005, (the child) live with themother. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED ON A FINAL BASIS THAT (2) The Father and the Mother have equal shared parental responsibility for themajor long term issues of the child including inrespect of: (a) thechilds education; (b) thechilds religious and cultural upbringing; (c) thechilds health; (d) thechilds name; and (e) changes tothe childs living arrangements that make it significantly more difficultfor the child to spend time with orlive with either parent. (3) The parents consult with each other about decisions to be made in theexercise of their equal shared parental responsibilityand make a genuine effortto come to a joint decision. (4) Each party has responsibility for decisions about the day to day care,welfare and development of the child while he is in thatpartys care. (5) The child spend time with the Father at all times as may be agreed by theparties in writing but, failing agreement as follows: (a) commencingwith the next visit in accordance with the schedule of time operative under theprevious parenting Order and untilFriday 28 November 2014: (i) from 9.00am Saturday until 4.00 pm Sunday each alternate weekend; and (ii) from afterschool or 3.00 pm until 7:30 pm each Wednesday, (b) from Friday28 November 2014: (i) from afterschool or 3.00 pm Friday until 4.00 pm Sunday each alternate weekend; (ii) from afterschool or 3.00 pm until 7:30 pm each Wednesday; (c) during theDecember 2014/January 2015 school holiday period: on three (3)non-consecutive blocks of two (2) nights and, unlessotherwise agreed betweenthe parties in writing, such time shall occur: (i) from 3.00pm on 17 December 2014 to 4.00 pm on 19 December 2014; and (ii) from 3.00pm on 31 December 2014 to 4.00 pm on 2 January 2015; and (iii) from 3.00pm on 14 January 2015 to 4.00 pm on 16 January 2015. (d) from 3.00pm Boxing Day 2014 until 4.00 pm Sunday, 28 December 2014. (e) from thesecond weekend after school commences in 2015: (i) eachalternate weekend from after school Friday until 4.00 pm Sunday with father tocollect the child from school at the commencementof time and the mother tocollect the child from the fathers residence at the conclusion of time; and (ii) from afterschool or 3.00 pm each Wednesday until the commencement of school on Thursdaywith the father to collect the childfrom school at the commencement of suchtime and return him to school at the conclusion of such time. (f) during the2015 Easter school holiday period: (i) from 9.00am on Good Friday (3 April 2015) until 9.00 am on Ester Sunday (5 April 2015);and (ii) for two(2) non-consecutive blocks of three (3) nights and, unless otherwise agreedbetween the parties in writing, such timeshall occur: from9.00 am on 7 April 2015 to 4.00 pm on 10 April 2015; and from9.00 am on 14 April 2015 to 4.00 pm on17 April 2015; (g) during the2015 June/July school holiday period: for five (5) consecutive nights and,unless otherwise agreed between the partiesin writing, such time shall commenceat 9.00 am on the Saturday immediately after school ends for the term and shallconclude at4.00 pm the following Thursday with the father to collect the childfrom the mothers residence at the commencement of suchtime and themother to collect the child from the fathers residence at the conclusionof such time. (h) for thefirst half of the 2015 September/October school holiday period with such time tocommence at 9.00 am on the Saturday immediatelyafter school concludes for theTerm and to conclude at 5.00 pm on the second Saturday after school concludesfor the Term with thefather to collect the child from the mothersresidence at the commencement of such time and the mother to collect the childfrom the fathers residence at the conclusion of such time. (i) for thefirst, third, fifth and seventh week of the December 2015/January 2016 schoolholiday period (or such of these weeks asfall within the childs schoolholiday period) and, unless otherwise agreed between the parties inwriting: (i) from 9.00am on the Saturday immediately after school concludes for the Term until 5.00 pmon the second Saturday after schoolconcludes for the Term with the father tocollect the child from the mothers residence at the commencement of suchtime andthe mother to collect the child from the fathers residence atthe conclusion of such time; and (ii) from 9.00am on the third Saturday after school concludes for the Term until 5.00 pm onthe fourth Saturday after school concludesfor the Term with the father tocollect the child from the mothers residence at the commencement of suchtime and the motherto collect the child from the fathers residence atthe conclusion of such time; and (iii) from 9.00am on the fifth Saturday after school concludes that Term until 5.00 pm on thesixth Saturday after school concludesthat Term with the father to collect thechild from the mothers residence at the commencement of such time and themotherto collect the child from the fathers residence at the conclusionof such time; and (iv) from 9.00am on the seventh Saturday after school concludes that Term until 5.00 pm on theeighth Saturday after school concludesthat Term with the father to collect thechild from the mothers residence at the commencement of such time and themotherto collect the child from the fathers residence at the conclusionof such time. (j) commencingwith the school holiday period at the conclusion of first Term in 2016 and,unless otherwise agreed between the partiesin writing: (i) for thefirst half of the school holiday periods, other than the Christmas schoolholiday period, in odd numbered years; and (ii) for thesecond half of the school holiday periods, other than the Christmas schoolholiday period, in even numbered years. (6) Commencing with the Easter 2016 school holiday period: if the child is nototherwise, pursuant to the terms of this Order, spendingtime with the father,the child shall spend time with the father: (a) from 9.00am Good Friday until 4.00 pm Easter Saturday in odd numbered years; and (b) from 9.00am Easter Sunday until 4.00 pm Easter Monday in even numberedyears. (7) Commencing with the Easter 2016 school holiday period: if the child is nototherwise, pursuant to the terms of this Order, spendingtime with the mother,the child shall spend time with the mother: (a) from 9.00am Good Friday until 4.00 pm Easter Saturday in even numbered years; and (b) from 9.00am Easter Sunday until 4.00 pm Easter Monday in odd numberedyears. (8) Commencing with the Christmas school holiday period in December 2016 and,unless otherwise agreed between the parties in writing,the child shall spendtime with: (a) with thefather for the first two weeks, fifth and seventh weeks in odd numbered years;and (b) with themother for the second two weeks, sixth and eighth weeks in odd numbered years;and (c) with themother for the first two weeks, fifth and seventh weeks in even numbered years;and (d) with thefather for the second two weeks, sixth and eighth weeks in even numberedyears. (9) That change over for the purpose of Clause (8) of this order shall occur at9.00 am on Saturdays. (10) From the start of Term 1 in 2015, the operation of Clause (5)e. shall besuspended during any school holiday period and shallresume with weekend timecommencing: (a) on thefirst weekend of school Term if the child has spent time with the father in thefirst half of the holiday period; or (b) on thesecond weekend of school Term if the child has spent time with the father in thesecond half of the holiday period. (11) In the event that, because of the operation of other terms of this Order,the child would not otherwise be spending time withthe mother on the weekend onwhich Mothers Day occurs, the child shall spend time with the mother onMothers Day from9.00 am Sunday until 4.00 pm with the mother to collectthe child from the fathers residence at the commencement of suchtime. (12) In the event that, because of the operation of other terms of this Order,the child would not otherwise be spending time withthe father on the weekend onwhich Fathers Day occurs, the child shall spend time with the father onFathers Day from9.00 am until 4.00 pm with the father to collect thechild from the mothers residence at the commencement of such time andtoreturn the child to the mothers residence at the conclusion of suchtime. (13) From December 2015 onwards, irrespective of the operation of other terms ofthis Order, the child shall spend time with thefather: (a) from 3.00pm Christmas Eve until 3.00 pm Christmas Day in odd numbered years; and (b) from 3.00pm Christmas Day until 3.00 pm Boxing Day in even numbered years. (14) From December 2015 onwards, irrespective of the operation of other terms ofthis Order, the child shall spend time with themother: (a) from 3.00pm Christmas Eve until 3.00 pm Christmas Day in even numbered years; and (b) from 3.00pm Christmas Day until 3.00 pm Boxing Day in odd numbered years. (15) If, because of the operation of other terms of this Order, the child is nototherwise living or spending time with the motheron her (the mothers)birthday, the child shall spend time with her: (a) if herbirthday falls on a non-school day: from 9.00 am until 4.00 pm with the motherto collect the child from the fathersresidence at the commencement oftime and return the child to fathers residence at the conclusion oftime; (b) if herbirthday falls on a school day: from after school until 7:30 pm with the motherto collect the child from school at thecommencement of such time and return thechild to the fathers residence at the conclusion of suchtime. (16) If, because of the operation of other terms of this Order, the child is nototherwise living or spending time with the fatheron his (the fathers)birthday, the child shall spend time with him: (a) if hisbirthday falls on a non-school day: from 9.00 am until 4.00 pm with the fatherto collect the child from the mothersresidence at the commencement oftime and return the child to mothers residence at the conclusion oftime; (b) if hisbirthday falls on a school day: from after school until 7:30 pm with the fatherto collect the child from school at thecommencement of such time and return thechild to the mothers residence at the conclusion of suchtime. (17) If, because of the operation of other terms of this Order, the child is nototherwise living or spending time with the fatheron his (the childs)birthday, the child shall spend time with him: (a) if hisbirthday falls on a non-school day: from 9.00 am until 2.00 pm with the fatherto collect the child from the mothersresidence at the commencement oftime and return the child to mothers residence at the conclusion oftime; (b) if hisbirthday falls on a school day: from after school until 7:30 pm with the fatherto collect the child from school at thecommencement of such time and return thechild to the mothers residence at the conclusion of suchtime. (18) If, because of the operation of other terms of this Order, the child is nototherwise living or spending time with the motheron his (the childs)birthday, the child shall spend time with her: (a) if hisbirthday falls on a non-school day: from 9.00 am until 2.00 pm with the motherto collect the child from the fathersresidence at the commencement oftime and return the child to fathers residence at the conclusion oftime; (b) if hisbirthday falls on a school day: from after school until 7:30 pm with the motherto collect the child from school at thecommencement of such time and return thechild to the fathers residence at the conclusion of suchtime. (19) The parent with whom the child is then living or spending time shall ensurethat the child telephones the other parent eachTuesday and Saturday between6.00 pm and 6.30 pm, or at such other time as may be agreed in writing betweenthe parents, and forthis purpose: (a) the parentwith whom the child is not then living shall initiate the telephone call to amobile telephone or landline telephonenumber provided by the other parent;and (b) the parentwith whom the child is then living shall ensure the child is available toreceive the telephone call; and (c) the parentwith whom the child is then living shall ensure the mobile telephone is chargedand in a mobile telephone receptionarea; and (d) the parentwith whom the child is then living shall ensure the child is afforded privacywhilst the telephone calls take place. (20) The child shall be at liberty to call either parent at all reasonable timesand the parent in whose care he then is shall assisthim to make any telephonecall he reasonably requests. (21) Unless otherwise specified in this Order, the father will collect the childat the commencement of his time with him: (a) from schoolif such time occurs on a school day; or (b) from themothers home or other location agreed between the parties in writing ifsuch time occurs on a non-school day. (22) Unless otherwise specified in this Order, the mother will collect the childat the conclusion of his time with the father fromthe fathers home orother location agreed between the parties in writing. (23) Each parent is at liberty to arrange for a person other than themselves toundertake any changeover provided that: (a) such personis known to the child; and (b) priorwritten notice, including by text communication, is given to the other parent ofthe intention to have a nominated personother than themselves performchangeover. (24) The father shall continue to attend upon Dr M, or such other appropriatealternative practitioner, and shall continue to complywith the treatment regime(including by taking any recommended and prescribed medication as directed)recommended by Dr M or suchother appropriate alternative practitioner. (25) By this Order, the father authorises Dr M, or such other appropriatealternative practitioner upon whom he attends to contactthe mother in the eventthat that practitioner has any concerns about the fathers capacity toprovide an appropriate careenvironment for the child. (26) The father shall immediately inform the mother should he have any concernsabout his capacity to provide appropriate care forthe child. (27) The parties shall ensure that the child continues to attend forconfidential counselling and/or supportive therapy (whetherprovided by apsychiatrist, psychologist, or other qualified therapist) as recommended by Dr Kand/or any other psychiatrist, psychologistor other qualified therapist uponwhom the child attends, with such confidential counselling and/or supportivetherapy to occur forno less than twelve (12) months after the making of thisOrder unless otherwise recommended by the childs treating psychiatrist,psychologist or other qualified therapist. (28) Each parent is at liberty to be involved in such counselling in the mannerdetermined by the childs treating psychiatrist,psychologist or otherqualified therapist. (29) Each party is at liberty to provide a copy of the reports prepared by Ms Cand Dr H during the course of these proceedings toany psychiatrist,psychologist or other qualified therapist upon whom that party or the childattends. (30) Neither parent denigrate the other or their family to, or in front of, orwithin the hearing of, the child. (31) Each party shall direct any third party to refrain from denigrating eitherparty or their family to, or in front of, or withinhearing of, the child and,failing, compliance with such a direction, shall remove the child from thatenvironment immediately. (32) During the time the child is with either parent, that parentshall: (a) respect theprivacy of the other parent and not question the child about the personal lifeof the other parent; and (b) speak ofthe other parent respectfully. (33) Each party shall inform the other parent as soon as reasonably practicableof any medical condition, significant health issueor significant illnesssuffered by the child. (34) Each party shall keep the other informed of the details of any doctors,health care and other treatment providers upon whomthe child attends. (35) By this Order, any medical practitioner, health care and other treatmentprovider upon whom the child attends is hereby authorisedto provide to eachparent, at that parents request and cost, all information lawfully ableto be provided about the childsattendance and treatment. (36) Each party shall keep the other informed of any day care, school,educational facility or extracurricular activity providerupon whom the childattends. (37) By this Order, any day care, school, educational facility orextracurricular activity provider upon whom the child attends isherebyauthorised to provide to each parent, at that parents request and cost,all information lawfully able to be providedabout the childs attendance,progress and participation, with such information to include, but not be limitedto: copies ofany school reports, newsletters, applications for classphotographs and the like and any information in relation to the childseducational and social progress. (38) The parties are at liberty to provide a copy of this Order to any school orother educational facility at which the child attends. (39) Each party shall keep the other parent informed at all times of theirresidential address, contact telephone numbers (mobileand landline ifavailable) and an email address and shall notify the other party at least 48hours before any change to the residentialaddress and within 48 hours of anychange to the contact telephone numbers or email address. (40) Subject to the conditions imposed by the childs school, these Ordersauthorise both parents to attend school functionsto which parents areordinarily invited including, but not limited to: carnivals, sports days, fetes,concerts, plays and parent/teacherinterviews. (41) The parties shall keep one another informed of matters such as schooling,extracurricular activities, medical issues and anyother issues that may arisewith respect to the child. (42) Neither party shall enrol the child in any activity nor arrange for thechild to participate in any activity which occurs duringtime the child is withthe other party without first obtaining the written agreement of that party. (43) Each parent shall ensure that the child attends at agreed extracurricularactivities and sporting events during the time thechild is in thatparents care. (44) Both parents do all things necessary and sign all documents necessary,within seven (7) days of any request for the same, toensure that a passport isobtained and maintained for the child. (45) In the event that either party refuses to sign any document or do anythingnecessary to obtain a passport for the child within14 days of receiving awritten request to do so from the other party, a Registrar of the Family Courtof Australia at Brisbane isappointed pursuant to s 106A of the Family LawAct (1975) (Cth) to execute all documents in the name of non-signingparty. (46) The mother shall be entitled to possession of the childspassport. (47) Unless agreed between the parents in writing, neither parent shall removethe child from the Commonwealth of Australia before3 October 2015 and,thereafter, each parent is at liberty to remove the child from the Commonwealthof Australia for the purposeof holiday travel. (48) In the event that a parent wishes to remove the child from the Commonwealthof Australia pursuant to Clause (47), that parentshall provide the other withno less than sixty (60) days notice of the intention to travel overseasand shall provide detailsof the proposed departure and arrival dates,destination and contact details whilst overseas. (49) No less than thirty (30) days before the proposed date of departure fromthe Commonwealth of Australia, the travelling parentshall provide the otherwith: (a) a copy of areturn ticket for the child, evidencing the date of departure and date of returnto the Commonwealth of Australia;and (b) a copy ofan itinerary which contains sufficient contact details to enable telephonecommunication between the non-travellingparent and the child to occur in themanner provided for in this Order. (50) Upon the fathers request, the mother shall provide the childspassport to the father no less than seven (7) daysbefore any notified proposeddate of departure from the Commonwealth of Australia. (51) In the event the father removes the child from the Commonwealth ofAustralia for the purpose of holiday travel, he shall returnthe childspassport to the mother within seven (7) days of the childs return to theCommonwealth of Australia. (52) That in the event of any dispute in relation to the interpretation orimplementation of this Order, the parties shall firstattend family disputeresolution at the Family Relationship Centre, Suburb A if available or suchother Family Dispute ResolutionPractitioner as may be agreed between them inwriting. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED THAT (53) Pursuant to s 65DA(2) and s 62B of the Family Law Act1975, the particulars of the obligations these orders create and theparticulars of the consequences that may follow if a person contravenestheseorders and details of who can assist parties to adjust to and comply with anorder are set out in the Fact Sheet attached andthese particulars are includedin these orders. AND IT IS FURTHER ORDERED THAT (54) All outstanding applications are otherwise dismissed and removed from thelist of cases requiring finalisation. (55) After the expiration of the appeal period, all subpoenaed documents bereturned to the persons or institutions from which theyemanated or destroyedand all exhibits are to be returned to the person or persons who tendered thesame. IT IS NOTED that publication of thisjudgment by this Court under the pseudonym Essex & Essex has beenapproved by the Chief Justice pursuant to s 121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act1975 (Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT BRISBANE FILE NUMBER: BRC5697 of 2011 Mr Essex Applicant And Ms Essex Respondent REASONS FOR JUDGMENT Icommence these Reasons with a sincere apology to the parties for the delay infinalising this matter. I assure them that I havehad particular regard to thecontemporaneous notes taken by me during the hearing. I have, of course,revisited and reread thesenotes, the affidavit material, the exhibits, thevarious reports prepared by persons with professional expertise for theCourtsassistance and the contents of the parties respectiveSummaries of Argument, however described. Theseproceedings[1] concern, B (thechild), born in 2005. The childs parents married in April 2003and separated finally in January2011. Thereis no dispute between the parties that the child will continue to live primarilywith the mother. Rather, their dispute involvesthe allocation of parentalresponsibility, the time the child will spend with the father and the conditionswhich will properly attachto such time. Theseissues fall to be determined in circumstances where the childs fathersuffers from a mental illness: he has been diagnosedwith a treatment resistantmajor depressive disorder and has been hospitalised - both during therelationship and after separation.On occasions, he has undergoneelectroconvulsive therapy (ECT). His last period of hospitalisation occurred inabout March 2011,a couple of months after separation. Theimpact on the father of his illness has been such that, in about April 2006, hetook leave from paid employment for a period ofabout 12 months. In about June2007, he commenced a graduated return to work program  his part timeemployment as a healthcareworker was structured to enable him torecuperate from the subjective stressors of his return towork[2] between each shift. Whenthe father transitioned to regular shifts in about July 2007, the work stressorsresulted in an increase in the somatic symptomsassociated with his illness.Consequently, he was placed on project work which continued - interrupted withoccasional periods ofsick leave - until about mid-2009. At this time, thefather was noted as being extremely vulnerable to externalstressors.[3] Thefather ceased working for remuneration in about late August 2009. He is yet toreturn to paid employment but intends to do soonce these proceedings arefinalised. Theparties are in dispute about the level of care the father provided to the childduring the relationship: the father asserts hewas the childs primarycarer, particularly after illness forced him to take leave from work and themother became the primarybreadwinner; the mother disputes this assertion on thebasis that, for much of the time, the child was in day care for most of theday.Given the agreement that the child will continue to live primarily with themother and the parties previous agreementsthat he spend unsupervisedtime with the father, resolution of such dispute matters little in the contextof determining the extentof the childs future unsupervised time with thefather. Itis immediately apparent that much of the fathers ill-health occurredduring the parties relationship. Clearly, theopportunity to witness theimpact of his ill-health on his functioning has had a significant impact on themother, her perceptionof the father and her view of his capacity to parent thechild. Itis also, I think, clearly established that, because they separated, the motherhas not had the opportunity to witness the fatherstreatment assistedimprovement. She remains  understandably in one sense  focused onhow he was when he was labouring under the significant impost of illness;she has, I think, struggled to move past these memories and to acceptthat thefather now may well be different to the person he was when first calledon to live with his condition. Anunfortunate consequence of the mothers perception of the father and hisability to provide safe and supportive care forthe child has been thefathers reaction to the same: he sees the mother as deliberatelyundermining his relationship withthe child, deliberately inventing orexaggerating her account of the childs behaviour whilst in her care andas deliberatelyexposing the child to unnecessary and over-intrusiveinterventions. Itis within this environment of reactive mistrust that consideration of thoseorders which are in the childs best interestsoccurs. Such assessmentmust also, of course, take into account the inherent features of the child:those matters of personalityand functioning which combine to make him who he is unfortunately, a further matter about which his parents have, at leasthistorically, disagreed. Whilstperhaps unduly optimistic, I retain the hope that now that the parents have bothhad the opportunity to hear the evidence duringthe trial in particularthat given by Dr H - and to reflect on the same, the future may hold an improvedprospect of a moreunderstanding, accepting and co-operative parenting regimefor the child. So much would certainly be to his benefit. The proposals Thefather seeks that[4]: theparties have equal shared parental responsibility for the child; thechild live with the mother; aftera graduated increase in time[5], thechild spend time with him: i) each alternate weekend fromafter school Friday until 4.00 pm Sunday; and ii) from after school each Wednesday overnight until 7.30 pmThursday; thechild continue to attend upon his psychologist, with appointments to beincreased in the fortnight before and after overnighttime commences; thechild spend time with him for half of the designated school holiday periods: ona week about basis in the Easter, June/July andSeptember school holidays andfor two consecutive weeks and two further separate weeks in the Christmas schoolholidays; thechild spend time with each parent on special days; thechild communicate with him by telephone at all reasonable times and at any timehe instigates; thechild continue to attend at the school at which he is currently enrolled, withthe costs of such schooling to be met by the mother; hispsychiatrist be authorised to contact the mother in the event his mental healthdeteriorates to the point which the psychiatristbelieves his capacity toprovide appropriate care for the child is affected; thereare standard orders made in relation to: information sharingbetween the parties, restraint of denigration byeach party of the other andauthorising the childs medical practitioners, schools and other relevantagencies to provide informationto the parties; and theparties be able to provide a copy of Ms Cs Family Reports and DrHs reports to their and the childs treatingpsychiatrists,psychologists or counsellors. Themother seeks that: shehave sole parental responsibility for the child; thechild live with her; thechild spend time with the father each alternate Wednesday from after schooluntil 6.30 pm, and for a period of twelve months,each alternate week on bothSaturday and Sunday from 9.00 am to 4.00 pm; afterthis twelve month period, and with the written confirmation by the childspsychiatrist, Dr K, that the childsanxiety levels have decreased, hisweekend time with the father occur each alternate weekend from 9.00 am Saturdayuntil 4.00 pmSunday; thechild spend time with each parent on special days; thechilds time with the father be conditional upon the fatherscontinued attendance upon his psychiatrist, Dr M, oranother appropriatepractitioner and his compliance with their recommended treatment regime; thefather be at liberty to communicate with the child by telephone every Tuesdaybetween 6.00 pm and 6.30 pm and each alternate Saturday(when the child is notspending time with him) and at any reasonable time as requested by thechild; shebe permitted to suspend the childs time with the father for a holiday ofup to 14 days, three times per calendar year andfor an additional 30 days everythree calendar years with this suspension to be conditional upon her providingthe father with 30days notice in writing of such intention; shebe permitted to take the child overseas for holidays on providing the fatherwith no less than 30 days notice in writingof such intention; thereare standard orders made in relation to: information sharingbetween the parties, restraint of denigration byeach party of the other andauthorising the childs medical and psychological practitioners, schoolsand other relevant agenciesto provide information to the parties; thefathers psychiatrist, Dr M, or any other treating professional beauthorised to contact her if such persons hold any reservationsabout thefathers capacity to provide adequate care for thechild; thefather inform her if he has any concerns in relation to his capacity toappropriately care for the child; thefather not consume alcohol in excess of the legal limit and not consume anymedications for which he does not hold a prescriptionwhilst the child is in hiscare; thefather not consume more than a single dose of Valium whilst the child is in hiscare, and in the event he has been prescribedmore than 10mg per day of Valium,he ensure he has alternate support for his time with the child - failing this,the mother willassume responsibility for the childs care; and thefather not take more than one dose of analgesia containing codeine whenconcurrently taking Valium and, if such concurrent medicationis prescribed, thefather shall arrange alternate support for his time with the child - failingthis, the mother will assume responsibilityfor the childscare. Brief overview: history of proceedings, previous Orders and the childstime with the father BetweenJanuary 2011 and May 2011, the child spent supervised time with thefather: eachWednesday afternoon from 2:30 pm to 5:30 pm; and eachSunday from 9.00 am to 3.00 pm. BetweenMay 2011 and June 2011, the child spent time with the father: on asupervised basis: each alternate Saturday and Sunday from 9.00 am until 5.00 pm;and eachWednesday from 2:30 pm to 6:30 pm, with the first 30 minutessupervised. BetweenJuly 2011 and 1 November 2011, the child spent time with thefather: eachWednesday evening from 4:30 pm to 7:30 pm, supervised at the home of a mutualfriend; and eachFriday afternoon from 3:30 pm to 5.00 pm at D Contact Centre;and eachSunday from 1:30 pm to 3:30 pm at E Contact Centre. InSeptember 2011, Ms C, a psychologist, completed her first Family Report. Sherecommended a significant increase in the amount oftime the child was to spendwith the father[6] and that theparties have equal shared parental responsibility for him. Inabout October 2011, Dr H, a psychiatrist, completed an initial report. Heconcluded there was no clear psychiatric reasonwhy the fathershould not be able to spend time with the child and that the childs timewith the father should be substantial,predictable andreliable. Afterthe release of these reports, the parties agreed the terms of an interimparenting order - on 1 November 2011, an Order wasmade by consent whichprovided that: thechild live with the mother; theparties have equal shared parental responsibility for the child; and thechild spend time with the father two evenings each week and during the day everyalternate Saturday and Sunday. Atthe time the November 2011 Order was made, the father lived in a self-containedflat at his sisters property. Thechild spent time with the father in accordance with the terms of the November2011 Order until 25 November 2012. On30 November 2011, Orders finalising the parties property dispute weremade by consent. Asthe November 2011 Order did not provide for overnight time between the child andthe father, the father filed an Application ina Case in about August 2012seeking, primarily, that the childs time with him increase to includeovernight time. The motherwas not supportive of such an increase. OnSaturday 24 November 2012  when the child was in his care  thefather moved from living at his sisters propertyto his own independentpremises. He did not tell either the mother or the child he intended to do thisbefore he moved. Anissue subsequently arose about whether the fathers independent livingarrangements were contemplated by the November 2011Order: that is, did theNovember 2011 Order contain an (implied) provision to the effect that thechilds time with the fatheroccur only at the fatherssisters property at Suburb F? The mother thought so and the father didnot. Whenshe learned of the fathers change of living arrangements, the motherwithheld the child. Consequently, he did not seethe father from 25 November2012 until 20 December 2012 when, in order to maintain and facilitate hisrelationship with the child,the father agreed to spend time with him at theSuburb F property. Consistentwith her view that the childs time with the father only occur at theSuburb F property, the mother filed an Applicationin aCase[7] seeking, amongst other things,orders to that effect. On20 December 2012, the Principal Registrar dismissed the fathersapplication for overnight time with the child and orderedthat Dr H prepare anupdated psychiatric report. Whenthe mothers Interim Application was heard on 18 March 2013, the motheragreed to the child spending time with the fatherat his own property. Whilst noexpress order was made (other than one dismissing the mothers Applicationin a Case), the childstime with the father thereafter occurred at andfrom the fathers own property in the manner prescribed by the November2011Consent Order. Thus,since 18 March 2013 the child has spent time with the father at hisresidence from afterschool each Wednesday and Thursday until 7.30 pm; and from8.00 am until 4.00 pm each alternate Saturday and Sunday. The Principles Inthese proceedings, being proceedings for a parenting order (s 64B of theFamily Law Act 1975 (Cth) (the Act)) in relation to thechild, I may, subject to s 61DA (presumption of equal shared parentalresponsibility) and s 65DAB (parenting plans) and Division 6 of Part VII ofthe Act, make such parenting order as I think proper: s 65D of the Act. I musthave regard to the Objects of Part VII of the Act and the principles whichunderpin those Objects: s 60B of the Act. In deciding whether to make aparenting order, I must regard the childs best interests as the paramountconsideration:s 60CA and s 65AA of the Act. Imust consider whether there is a benefit to the child of a meaningfulrelationship with both parents: an affirmative finding doesnot, of course,depend simply on there being a lack of danger of physical or psychological harmto him arising from time or communicationwith eitherparent.[8] A prospective approach ispreferred when considering the benefit to the child of a meaningful relationshipwith both of his parents.[9] Neitherparent disputes that the child will benefit from a meaningful relationship withthe other parent. I am satisfied that, subjectto finding that spendingovernight time with the father does not expose the child to an unacceptable riskof harm, he will benefitfrom the ongoing opportunity to continue to develop andmaintain a meaningful relationship  namely, one that is important,significant and valuable to him[10]- with both of his parents. Themother advances that the childs time with the father should occur to use the phrase taken from her Updated SummaryofArgument[11] - on acomparatively limited basis because she is concerned he may be subjectedor exposed to psychological, emotionaland potentially physicalharm if he spends more time with the father than provided for in herproposal. Thefather advances that increased and overnight time with him does not pose anyunacceptable risk to the child. He says that, withappropriate graduations andsupport (including from treating professionals), the child will benefit fromhaving the opportunity tospend overnight and holiday time in his care. Hefurther seeks to reassure the mother about his functioning by proposing that hislong-standing treating psychiatrist (Dr M) continue to be authorised to contactthe mother if he forms the opinion the fathersfunctioning hasdeteriorated to an extent that it impacts negatively on his capacity to parentthe child. Giventhat each parent criticises the others management of the childsanxieties  the father saying the motheris responsible for the same andthe mother saying the father is incapable of managing the same - it is logicalto commence with anoverall consideration of this issue. Who is the child: his anxiety, his school refusal and what thismeans for him and his time with the father? Asthe parties each assess the childs mental health in a markedly differentmanner, it is, perhaps, pertinent to note Ms Csobservation in the 2011Family Report - when she was assessing the major issues between the parties - tothe effect that thedifference in their positions relates to differentinterpretations of the facts by virtue of their individualexperiences.[12] Themother maintains the child has displayed symptoms of anxiety andobsessional behaviour since he was 2 yearsold.[13] She told Ms C in2011 that the child was very sensitive and a bit on the anxiousside.[14] DrG, a child and adolescent psychiatrist, saw the child on five occasions from2009 until 2011 and, again, for a single session inlate December 2012. Whilstthe mothers material does not contain any suggestion that either party orthe child had any difficulty with Dr Gstherapeutical recommendations,the father asserted that, at some time before the proceedings commenced, Dr Gadvised the mother toquit her job, separate from him, move to Town I (where herextended family live), register for Centrelink benefits and have the childbaptised Catholic in order to obtain access to cheapereducation.[15] He says the motherwas displeased with this advice. Whilstneither Dr Gs affidavit nor the report of Ms J, the motherspsychologist, refer to these alleged recommendations,it is obvious that each oftheir reports provides only a brief overview of the history of matters dealtwith during the course oftheir engagement with the parties. Onabout 25 January 2011, the mother sought a psychological referral for the childfrom Dr L, his general practitioner. The purposeof the referral was to assistin reducing his anxiety, obsessional behaviour, and volatilemood[16] after theparties recent separation. As a consequence of the completion of a MentalHealth Treatment Plan, the child attendedupon Mr N, a psychologist. MrN saw the child 22 times in the period from 21 January 2011 until 23 June 2011.On 24 June 2011, Mr N wrote to the motherssolicitors outlining hisconclusion that although [the child] displays subclinical features, hedoes not meet criteria forany mentaldisorder....[17]Consequently, Mr N did not diagnose the child as suffering from any mentaldisorder.[18] The child continued toattend on Mr N who was made aware of the mothers concerns about hisbehaviour and his comments toher.[19] DrGs involvement in the childs treatment was discussed by Dr H inhis first report dated 14 October 2011. He concludedthat given thepolarisation around the opinion/s ascribed to Dr [G] in the past, it might bebetter if it were a differentpsychiatrist upon whom the childattended.[20] DespiteDr Hs recommendation, her own expressed reservations in relation to Dr Gand the fathers desire for the childnot to attend upon her, the mothertook the child to see Dr G on 22 December 2012. After this, Dr G told the mothershe did not believeit necessary to continue the childs attendance. Themother does not provide an explanation for why, after almost five weeksfollowing the recommendation being made, it was necessary for the child toattend upon a psychiatrist about whom there is significantdisagreement, otherthan to indicate that there had been a cancellation at the doctorsoffice. DrG prepared two reports: dated September 2011 and 16 April 2013. Her April 2013report summarises the childs sessions andcontains her assessment that,[The child] has a significant constitutionally anxious temperament, thatat times has likelyreached clinical threshold for being adisorder.[21] Whilstthe mother asserts the childs behaviour deteriorated - in the manneroutlined in her affidavit material in significantdetail - after he started tospend unsupervised time with the father following the November 2011 Order, themothers currentproposal is that such unsupervised daytime time continuefor a further 12 month period whilst the child continues to be supportedby histreating psychiatrist. Thefather urges that I adopt a sceptical assessment of the mothers evidenceabout the childs behaviours before andafter spending time with him.Whilst I am not prepared to reject the mothers description of thechilds behaviour onoccasions, I do not accept that his behaviours oranxieties are attributable solely to his time with the father. Rather, Iconsiderit highly likely that at least some of his recounted behaviours maywell be reactive to, and reflective of, her own anxieties abouthis time withthe father. Some may also be, simply, a manifestation of his own anxiouspersonality. Themother gives evidence of the childs comments to her on occasions. Shesays, for example, that at the end of September2012, when about 7 years ofage, he became distressed before changeover and, on returning home, said thingslike I wish Iwas dead and it would be so much easier if Iwas dead.[22] He reactedhysterically in early October 2012 when a blood test was ordered,saying things like just kill meor Ill kill myself. He hascomplained of physical symptoms including feeling really sick, apain in hischest, headaches and tummy pains. He has haddifficulty settling to sleep at night on occasions. Shedescribes that, toward the end of 2012, when his attempt to collect rainwaterovernight failed, he became distressed to the pointof sobbing and pushingfurniture over and yelled things like: none of my ideas are ever anygood... I hate myself, I am sostupid, I just want todie.[23] The mother describedthe child asking her will you kill me mummy? and telling her when she told him she didnot want him to die - it doesntmatter, I know how to do it anyway, I just have to get a knife and stab myself,I justwant to die and be in heaven. When the mother asked how often hefelt like this and the child said, all the time...Iam stupid...Imno good, none of my ideas work out, Im so stupid, I hatemyself.[24] Fromthe mothers perspective, the father has not taken these reported commentsand behaviours seriously. From the fathersperspective, the mother hasexaggerated and over-emphasised these comments and behaviours and, in suchmanner, perhaps, escalatedthem. Whateverthe cause of the childs comments as reported by the mother, there is noevidence to suggest he has ever acted to harmhimself deliberately. Further,despite being advised in mid-November 2012 (after seeking assistance followingthe event referredto above) that the child required urgent psychiatricassessment, [25] the motherdid not seek out the same for him until she took him to Dr G in late December2012. After this consultation, Dr G toldher she did not believe it necessary tocontinue to see the child again. Iconsider it highly likely that, at least in the past, the child has reportedthings to the mother in a manner that is not entirelyaccurate. A clear exampleof this can be found in the occasion, in late November 2012, when the fathermoved from his sisterspremises to live in his own premises. The childwas spending time with him on that day and was involved in the move. Themothers evidence is that when the child returned home that evening, hesobbed for about an hour and a half and said: Ithas been such a hard dayfor me, too much for me, I had no idea that was going tohappen, I was panickingall day. She said he was withdrawnand unusually clingy and wet his bed that night  something he had notdone in almosta year. However,the childs paternal grandfather, who helped the father and the child tomove that day, provides a starkly differentaccount of what actually happenedthat day: he says the mothers report of the childs description toher of what happenedthat day is completely inconsistent with his observations.He says[26] the child neverpanicked, never showed any anger, showed no distress whatsoever throughout theday, happily packed his things forthe move, appeared excited about thefathers apartment, his bedroom and bathroom and was playful throughoutthe day. The paternalgrandfather says the child told him words to the effectthat he could come here every day. Iaccept the paternal grandfathers evidence, noting that video recordingsof the child on that day support his contentions.The recordings capture thechild and the extended paternal family happily packing up his bedroom and thechild and grandfather playingand laughing at the new house. Throughout the daythe child can be heard to say things like its a nice place,I have a really nice bathroom, I can come here everyday. Despitethis positive interaction and attitude to the fathers new premises, themothers evidence is that, after he spenttime with the father the nextday, the child told her he was concerned about spending time with the father inthe absence of hisaunt. If the child told the mother he was worried  asshe reports  I am not persuaded that such comment accuratelyrecountedhis own experience of the fathers new home the day before. Rather, Iaccept that he was excited and happy when takento see his fathers newhome. I also accept that it is entirely possible that, for whatever reason, thechild told the mothersomething close to the exact opposite. Themothers evidence is that, after the childs time with the fatherrecommenced, he continued to complain to her aboutbeing in his fatherscare. He demonstrated highly reactive behaviour in early February 2013 about anupcoming dentist appointment,screaming things like: I cant doit, I want todie[27], grabbing a butterknife from the kitchen drawer and running out the front door. Shedescribes him exhibiting distress after spending time with the paternal family.Again, the account she provides of his recountingto her is contradicted by thepaternal grandfathers evidence of the childs behaviour whilst withthem. Rather thanbeing distressed, the child was, I accept, excited aboutplaying tennis with the family and was happy allday.[28] Themother said the child continued to make comments to her like: he wanted to dieand go to heaven, that this lifeand this world weretoo hard, asked her if she would kill him and stab him, asked whether the fatherhad ever wantedto kill himself. She sought assistance from Mr N who providedthe child with certain strategies. It appears that, from about February2013 atthe very latest, the childs comments and threats of self-harm thenstarted to become associated with his school refusal.Again the mother soughthelp from Mr N. [29] Iconclude that the mother did not really think that the childs commentsand/or threats about harming himself were casuallyrelated to his time with thefather because, when the matter was before the Court on 18 March 2013, sheagreed his time with thefather could occur at the fathers home. Afterthe child continued to complain to the mother  in a manner that seems tome to be closely connected with his desire notto have to go to school he started to see Dr K, a child psychiatrist, on 24 April 2013. DespiteDr Ks involvement and the mothers attempts to implement hersuggested calming strategies, the childsdifficulties with and refusal toattend at school has continued. I am satisfied that his expressed anxietiesabout school and leavingthe mother to attend at school are not related to hisinteractions or time with the father. Iaccept the mothersevidence[30] of the numerousoccasions on which the child has become distressed: atthe thought of going to school; inthe process of getting to school; and whenthe mother leaves him at school. Inthe circumstances briefly summarised above and accepting Dr Hs evidenceabout the childs school refusal  referredto in greater detailbelow - it is unsurprising he has been absent from school for about 74 days inthe period between the 2011 academicyear and March 2013.[31] It is also pertinent to note that,despite these absences, the childs teacherreports[32] he is a quiet,delightful child who is willing to learn and accepts responsibility for his ownlearning. Thefather is critical of the mothers failure to facilitate the childsattendance at school. While I accept that consistentabsences from school maywell have future significant negative consequences for the child, I am mindfulof the evidence given byDr H  which I accept  to the effect thatit can be very difficult for a parent to manage a child such as this childwhodisplays such significant anxiety at, or around, or associated with, schoolattendance. Iaccept that, on occasions, the mother has been told by the school guidanceofficer she must pick her battles and sometimesallow the child tostay home from school. I also accept the mother has made significant attempts tofacilitate the childsattendance at school in very difficultcircumstances. Ifurther accept that, while, in particular instances, the mother may well havebeen able to use different techniques or approachesto encourage the child toattend school, such assessment is easy to make with the benefit of hindsight andalmost impossible to achievein the heat of the moment. In this respect, I alsoaccept Dr Hs evidence to the effect that there is a tension between theinstinct of many parents to rescue their child and implementingstrategies which cause distress but may serve to reducethe anxiety that, whilst retrospectivity may clarify strategies which may have been moreeffective at any particular instance,it ought not be used to criticise a parentwho, at that time, attempted a different strategy. In2011, Dr H[33], whose evidence Iaccept, concluded that the child: ... has a strong biological family history of anxiety and depressive symptoms.He has demonstrated significant anxiety from an earlyage. These appear to bepersistent and ongoing. All significant sources of clinical data suggest that hehas a significant levelof anxiety... he probably does not at the point in timemeet criteria for a formal anxiety disorder because his level of functionis notaffected enough by his symptoms. However he is on the cusp and is at high riskof developing a future anxietydisorder.[34] In2013, Dr H assessed the child as having: ... developed a clinical anxiety disorder in the form of Separation AnxietyDisorder (with school refusal). He has symptoms of anxietyin other domains aswell.[35] Thefather does not accept that the child has displayed the behaviours described bythe mother. He has never seen the child act insuch a manner. Further, heasserts the mother did not raise any of her concerns about the childsmental health with him beforeshe made them in the Summary ofIssues statement submitted to Ms C during the preparation of the updatedFamily Report.[36] He also allegesthat, in the period between when the Updated Family Report  whichrecommended the child spend time with himovernight and increasing to fournights per fortnight - issued in June 2012 and when she filed her affidavit on 8October 2012, themother did not raise any issue about the childs mentalhealth with him. Iaccept Dr Hs evidence, given when he was asked to elaborate on hisclinical diagnosis made in 2013, to the effect that: typically,the behaviour of children, who suffer from the disorder he assessed the child assuffering from, may be manifestly differentbetween the house of the parent withwhom they have their primary attachment and the house of the parent with whomthey do not havetheir primary attachment; thebehaviour described by the mother will likely desist once the child is at schoolwith the result that the school may not, in fact,see indications of suchbehaviour; manyof the behaviours described by the mother are consistent with the patternof the disorder; and theabsence of their own observations should not cause the other parent (here: thefather) to consider the observations of the primarycarer as exaggerated, madeup, fanciful or invented. Iaccept the evidence given by Dr H under cross-examination to the effect that ananxious childs presentation can be multifactorial:that is, contributedto by a genetic predisposition and environmental factors, where both parentssuffer from at least some anxioustendencies. Iam hopeful that, with this reminder of Dr Hs evidence, the father willreflect on his opinion of the mothers reportingof the childsbehaviours whilst in her care. I am also hopeful that, with the assistance of DrM if needed, he will fullyappreciate that the childs behaviours and hisanxieties may differ significantly in each household through no fault ofeither parent and/or for no reason connected to eachparents parenting style or capacity. In a similar manner, I am hopefulthat the mother will appreciatethe same. Iaccept the fathers evidence that, following the recommendation made by DrK, he has implemented an anxiety scaleat his house  wherethe child is asked to use it to measure his anxiety  and has sought toimplement other suggestionssuch as using deep breathing techniques to help thechild to control his own anxiety. His implementation of these recommendationspersuades me he has the capacity to accept specialist advice about the need toassist the child to manage his anxiety and to managethis in the same way as themother has in her household. Iconsider that as long as the parents have the opportunity to attend,independently, on the childs treating therapists ormedical practitionersand/or to receive consistent information about how to help him to learn tomanage his anxieties and behaviour,each will be able to implement similarstrategies for him whilst he is in their respective care. Now that he has heardDr Hsevidence and adopted Dr Ks recommended strategies, I amconfident the father will, in the future, seek her advice, and thatof any otherspecialist upon whom the child may attend in the future, to ensure, for thechild, that his anxiety is managed consistentlyin each of his parentshouseholds. Ido not accept the mothers assertion that the father denies theseriousness of his condition and...appears to haveno insight into the impact ofhis conduct on [thechild].[37] The father, whohas lived with his condition for the better part of eight years, has not everasserted it is anything but serious.He does, however, assert that, despite itsseriousness, its effect on his functioning is not such that the child should bedeniedthe opportunity to maintain a meaningful and involved relationship withhim. Asnoted above, it is uncontroversial that the fathers mental health had asignificant impact on the parties relationshipand the fathersfunctioning from about 2006. The evidence led by the mother, in relation to thefathers mental healthfocuses significantly on the time before thedissolution of the relationship: at a time when, according to Dr M, thefatherstreating psychiatrist, the fathers mental health wassignificantly worse than it was at the time of trial. Inthe 2011 Family Report, Ms C noted as follows: ... it is of concern to me (and no doubt the mother) that he seemed to justifyhis actions on this occasion [a self harm attemptapproximately six monthsprior] on the basis of a negative comment to him by the mother beforehand...Itis encouraging that the fathersmental health has, for the moment,stabilized. However, there have been (admittedly shorter lived) periods ofrelative stabilityin the past which have without exception until now beenfollowed by relapses.[38] ... The issue for [the child] would appear to relate more to neglect or lack ofstimulation should the fathers condition relapseat any time and shouldhe perhaps be sedated or again apathetic about caring for and amusing orinteracting with [the child].[39] Inthe 2012 updated Family Report, Ms C records her opinion that she does notbelieve that the fathers mental healthcan be consideredsufficiently robust for him to cope with care of [the child] for lengthy periodsof time and accordingly do notbelieve that equal shared care is indicated forthis child. WhilstI accept her evidence in this respect, the time proposed by the father or something of a similar nature, involvingovernight time  is not ofsuch duration as to fall within that about which Ms C expressed reservation. DrM, the fathers treating psychiatrist has had a therapeutic relationshipwith the father since early 2006. He has preparedtwo reports (dated 26 January2011 and 29 January 2013) in relation to the fathers mentalhealth.[40] I accept his evidenceunless I indicate otherwise. TheNovember 2011 Order required Dr M to notify the mother in the event hehas any concerns about the fathers capacityto provide an appropriatecare environment for [the child]. It is uncontested that Dr M did notcontact the mother at anytime after the November 2011 Order was made. Whilstthe mother appeared concerned about this and seemed to place significant weighton the absence of contact, I accept Dr Ms evidence to the effect thatthere was nothing in the fathers presentationto him to suggest that heneeded to notify her. Thefathers medication was changed by Dr M in late 2012. Dr M did not tellthe mother about this. I accept his evidence tothe effect that hisunderstanding of the Order  with which I agree - was that he was requiredto disclose to the mother ifthere was deterioration in the mental state of thefather: not whether there had been any alteration to the fathersmedication. Iaccept that Dr M was well aware of the type or form of deterioration in thefathers functioning he needed to look for: namely,a worsening in thefathers depression or inability to care for the child or the developmentof excessive adverse effects fromtaking medication. I accept he had not noticedany such impact and thus there was no requirement he contact the mother. Theimpact of medication on the fathers functioning has, at times, been anissue: for example, particularly in the early partof treatment, he previouslyexperienced problems sleeping which may have been an impediment to care for thechild. However, I acceptDr Ms opinion  as contained incorrespondence to Ms C on 12 April 2012 - that he had no concerns fromthe perspectiveof dangerousness, either to himself or to hisson.[41] DrM reiterated this opinion in his 2013 report. I accept that, having consideredthe fathers mental state and functioning,he has had no concerns inrelation to the fathers ability to respond to the childs needsappropriately. Iaccept Dr Ms opinion that: thefathers mental state had been improving in the time preceding thehearing; formost of the six years during which the father had suffered from a majordepressive disorder, it had been severe in its intensity- however, during 2012,it would have been considered moderate; and atthe time of hearing, the fathers major depressive disorder was mild inits intensity. Insofaras Counsel for the mother asserted that such improvement was not reflected inthe material - particularly the reports Dr Mprepared for the fathersinsurance claim  it seems to me that, whilst such a clear progression isnot explicitly outlinedin the various reports, a number of them detailimprovements in the fathers mental state over time. Iaccept Dr Ms evidence that, although the father has a chronic mild stateof depression, the conclusion of these proceedingsand the consequent removal ofa major stressor in the fathers life may well see a further improvementin the fathersmental health; I also accept his opinion that a fullrecovery is unlikely. Iaccept Dr Ms evidence to the effect that prolonged exposure to a parentin a morose or pessimistic mood is unhealthy fora child  however, theprolonged exposure is a reference to unabated exposure over monthsto years and not thetime proposed by the father in the orders he seeks. Themother raised significant concerns in relation to the childs assertionsthat the father is frequently tired, or sleeping,during his visits. She assertsthis poses a risk to the child. She seeks orders that the fathers timewith the child be contingentupon him not consuming more than a single (10mg)dose of Valium, or a single dose of analgesia containing codeine whilst thechildis in his care without first obtaining alternative support. Inrejecting the submission that the child is at risk in his fathers carebecause of this or that such an order is necessaryto ensure the child is safewhilst in his fathers care, I accept Dr Ms evidence thatwhile: at times in the past, there have certainly been issues of sedation andsomnolence that [the father] has had to face at times whenhe has been caringfor his son... [he] is now sleeping in a much better fashion, with improvedsleep rhythms, such that he is notsleeping approximately eight hours pernight...[and] he denies any sleeping in the day, or daytime somnolence, and mymental stateexaminations performed over time would support this.[42] Ialso accept Dr Ms evidence that, as at January 2013, themedications that he [was then] taking are only modestly sedating,so he would beable to wake to his son in the night, should that berequired.[43] Iaccept Dr Ms clarification that any expression of suicidal thought in histreating notes ought be distinguished from suicidality(including intention toact) and ought be read as disclosed within the confines of the doctor/patientrelationship within which aperson is likely to confide thoughts which theywould not necessarily act on or relay in other circumstances. Iam not persuaded on the evidence that the father lacks the capacity to care forthe child during overnight time. His mental healthand functioning has been andis monitored by Dr M, a psychiatrist with whom he has a long-standing and wellestablished professionalrelationship. He agrees he will continue to attend onDr M and, whatever time the child spends with him in the future, an order willbe made to that effect. Whilstit may well be that, because of the limitations on his opportunity to spendextended time with the child, the father has notexperienced the child behavingin the manner described by the mother, he has now had the benefit of DrHs opinion and evidenceabout the disparity in the parentsrespective experiences of the childs behaviours. I think it likely thisevidencewill help him, perhaps with Dr Ms assistance, to appreciate thatany future difficulties with the childs behaviours wherever andhowever manifested  are not the fault of either of hisparents but rather, matters whichrequire attention and consistent parentalmanagement. Giventhe lengthy time over which the child has spent unsupervised daytime time withthe father, the fathers continuing engagementwith Dr M - whose evidenceabout his functioning and engagement I accept  and my acceptance of DrHs evidence thatthere is no psychiatric reason why the childstime with the father should not include overnight time and Ms Csevidence,I am not remotely persuaded the child will be at an unacceptable riskof harm  of whatever nature  if he is providedwith theopportunity to spend overnight time with the father. Spendingovernight time with the father may well expose the child to a differentparenting style and way of managing and dealing withissues relating to him tothat to which he is exposed whilst in the mothers care. However, I am notpersuaded that this islikely to cause him any long-lasting distress or toimpact negatively on his long term functioning. DrH asserted in his 2011 report that: ... it is the fathers responsibility to identify if he is sedated, tiredor unwell and requires additional assistance to meet[the childs] needs.In my opinion the Court needs to determine whether or not he will do thisreliably. In my opinion he hasthe capacity to do this reliably and it is aquestion of whether he exercises thatcapacity.[44] Iaccept that the father has the capacity to reliably identify if he is unwell ortired or requires additional assistance to meetthe childs needs. I amfurther satisfied that it is more likely than not that he will exercise thatcapacity if required inthe future. Additionally,whilst Ms C said, in her 2011 report, that the father need[ed] to takemore responsibility for recognising signsof deterioration in his own mentalhealth and the mother needs to build her trust in the father to dothis[45], her report does notindicate any occasion when the father failed to identify a deterioration in hismental health. Iaccept the evidence of Dr M  the fathers treating psychiatrist ofseven years  that: [The father] has reasonable judgment, and would appropriately engage inobtaining further assistance, were he to be unwell in anyway such that it couldimpair his ability to care for [the child]. I have the opinion that [the father]is highly motivated to puthis sons needs first, and would have thejudgment to behave appropriately in thisregard.[46] Ialso accept Dr Ms conclusion in relation to the fathers condition,that there has been a progressive gradualimprovement, with a lesseningof subjective depression over time, a greater degree of affective reactivity andhedonic tone, improvementin the neurovegetative parameters of appetite andsleep, as well as improvements in energy, motivation andconcentration.[47] Further,both parties advance that, should the father consider his mental health todeteriorate to such an extent it would affecthis capacity to care for the childhe ought to inform the mother and make alternative arrangements for thechilds care, theorders made will reflect this. Iam not persuaded that the father is likely to fail to take appropriate care ofthe child if his time extends to overnight time ratherthan continuing as it hasbeen thus far. Whilst the mother has criticised the father for the state inwhich the child has been returnedto her care after mid-week time, I acceptthat, as the child often has an appointment with Mr N during this time with hisfather,the impost of travel at peak hour has, on occasion, meant that thefather simply has not had the opportunity to ensure the childhas done hishomework. I accept that he has run out of time to meet the mothersexpectations; I also record that the childwill not suffer harm if fed takeawayfood on such occasions or retuned without a shower. I consider that whatever hasnot been achievedin this relatively limited time is not a reflection of ageneral incapacity on the part of the father to deal with such issues. Iaccept the fathers evidence that, when he has been unable to have thechild complete his homework because of the time constraints,he has emailed theschool teacher, and frequently the mother as well, to let them know this, andthe teacher has not raised any concernsin relation to the same. Iaccept Dr Hs evidence that a progression to overnight time is unlikely tocause the child increased anxiety because childrenof the childs age, whosuffer from his type of separation anxiety, do not typically suffer additionalanxiety from such anevent  but, rather, as a consequence of schoolattendance. Iaccept Dr Hs evidence that it is unlikely the child will experience thesame level of anxiety associated with going to thefathers for overnighttime as he does in relation to attending school. I also accept that there is nopsychiatric reason whyovernight time between the father and the child shouldnot be progressed. Whilstthe mother has expressed her concern about both the childs capacity tocope with overnight time and her capacity tosupport him in this process, I amconfident that, with the appropriate professional supportive assistance, bothshe and the childwill be able to manage this next phase of the childsparenting regime. I am confident that the mother will engage with whateverexternal support is needed to assist her to manage and accept that it isbeneficial for the child to have the opportunity to spendovernight and blocktime with the father. Iam also conscious that, as a consequence of the significant delay in thefinalisation of this matter, the child has already hada further significantperiod of time during which to continue to develop his ongoing relationship withthe father by spending daytimetime with him. It is also highly likely that, towhatever extent, the child has matured a little. Parental responsibility Whenmaking a parenting order I am bound to apply a presumption that it is in thechilds best interests that his parents haveequal shared parentalresponsibility (the presumption) for him: s 61DA of the Act. Neitherparty submitted that the presumption is rendered inapplicable in this case.However, the mother advances that she has concernsabout thefathers alleged limited ability to make joint decisions inrelation to the major long term issuesfor the child. She contends that theevidence would satisfy the Court that it is not in the childs bestinterests for thereto be an order for his parents to have equal shared parentalresponsibility for major long term issues relating tohim.[48] Whilstit may be suggested that the childs parents will struggle to makedecisions jointly about him, I am confident that eachpossesses the capacity toengage in sufficient communication to make joint decision making possible. Ialso consider that an orderfor sole parental responsibility may empower oneparent to the exclusion of the other, in a manner likely to maintain theacrimonywhich has previously existed: it may well reinforce and continue theconflict between the parties rather than focusing their attentionupon theimportance of working together to support and assist the child. Iam confident in concluding that both parties have the childs bestinterests as their primary focus. Despite the difficultiesof the past, I havereached the conclusion that, with effort and focus, both parents have thecapacity to be able to make joint decisionsabout those matters necessary to bedecided in the exercise of parental responsibility. I am confident that, witheffort, they candischarge the obligation imposed upon them to reach decisionsjointly.[49] Ihave concluded, therefore, that it is in the childs best interests thatthe parties have equal shared parental responsibilityfor the major long termissues relating to him. Further discussion Itfollows from the conclusion about the allocation of parental responsibilitythat, in making a parenting order, I am required toconsider whether it is inthe childs best interests and reasonably practicable for him to spendequal time with each parent.[50] Ihave concluded that it is neither in his best interests nor reasonablypracticable that he spend equal time with each parent. Iarrive at thisconclusion because: I assess his primary attachment is highly likely to be withthe mother, his innate personalitysuggests he may well struggle with such asignificant change to his historical primary care arrangements and neitherparent suggeststhat such an outcome would be in the childs bestinterests. I also accept Ms Cs evidence as outlined in paragraph [82]above. Itis, I consider, in the childs best interests that, via a graduatedprocess, he spend substantial and significanttime[51] with the father and,consequently, each of his parents. The geographic distance between theparties respective householdsis not such as to make it reasonablyimpracticable for the child to spend this increasing time. I am furtherconfident that, as theincreases in the childs time with the father willoccur against a background of him having had the opportunity to spend regularall day weekend time with the father for a reasonably significant period, suchincreases are unlikely to cause him any longstandingdifficulties. Iam also confident that with the support of treating therapists (of whatevernature), for the mother and the father, the child islikely to be able to manageany likely initial upset or distress associated with his transition toovernight weekend and, later,block holiday time with the father. Thecombination of the matters discussed above and the evidence of Drs H and M, whentaken with that of Ms C, persuades me that itis in the childs bestinterests for his time with the father to progress to overnight and blockholiday time in the manneroutlined in the Orders made today. Iconsider that the manner in which his time with the father will increase overtime is likely to give him the opportunity to adjust,to settle and to managethe consequences of the change for him. Whilst this change may, initially, havesome unsettling impact, Iam confident that the benefits to the child of theopportunity to spend additional overnight and block time with the father faroutweighany short-term disruption or upset. WhilstI take into account the evidence supportive of an order that the child attendfor therapy for two weekly sessions with Mr Nbefore there is any increase inhis time with the father, such recommendation was made a considerable time ago.As I have determinedthat an order requiring the childs parents to ensurehe attend appropriate therapy  with Dr K or such other appropriatelyqualified professional as she may recommend  for a period of no less than12 months unless such professional recommends otherwise,I am confidentthat he will be well supported by such interaction if necessary. Whilst,in arriving at the timeframes ordered for the gradual increase in thechilds time with the father, I have taken intoaccount the contents of MsCs reports and her recommendations, I have also taken into account thetime that has elapsed sincethe hearing concluded. I consider that the terms ofthe Order made today achieves a balance between affording the child theopportunityto spend increasing overnight and block time with the father whilstacknowledging his need for such increase to occur in a moderatemanner and, ifnecessary, supported by his treating therapist or medical professional. Byway of example, overnight time during the week shall only occur from 2015, afterthe child has had the opportunity to settle intoand experience overnightalternate weekend time with the father. Further, block holiday time will occurin an increasing manner andshall culminate in the child spending no more than atwo week block with the father unless otherwise agreed between the parties inwriting. Thegradual increase in block time (such that the child will not spend sevenconsecutive nights in the fathers care until theSeptember/October 2015holiday period), the passage of time since the hearing, the obvious consequenceof the same on the childscurrent age and his likely increased maturityand the fact that he has now spent significant daytime time with the father alsopersuadesme that it is unnecessary to impose on the father an obligation tohave extended family members present during initial block holidayperiods. Ihave also concluded that, in circumstances where his weekend time with thefather will increase to encompass overnight time, thechilds bestinterests will be met by removing the provision that he spend after school timewith the father every Thursdayafternoon. This will mean less disruption andmoving between his parents during the school week as he grows older and theschoolimposed demands upon him increase. It will also mean that he is notrequired to undertake transitions between school, the fatherand the mother onThursday afternoons. Ihave also concluded that it is in the childs best interests to maintainthe alternate weekend and Wednesday afternoon timewith the father during theDecember 2014/January 2015 school holiday period rather than suspending the same(as will occur from thestart of Term 1 in 2015) because this will provide thechild with an additional opportunity to continue to settle into the patternoftime with the father rather than placing him in a situation where he is exposedto a stop/start parenting regime. Iam not persuaded that an order which would permit the mother to suspend thechilds time with the father for up to 14 consecutivedays on up to threeoccasions each year and for up to 30 consecutive days on an occasion every threeyears is in his best interestsunless agreed between the parents. I arrive atthis conclusion because of the disruptive impact such suspension is likely tohaveon the parenting regime established by the implementation of the Order madetoday and my concern that to make such an order may wellsignal to the child,wrongly, that his time with the father is less significant and important thanhis time with the mother. Additionally,whilst Ms C recommended that each parent be responsible for conveying the childto half of his therapeutic sessions,I consider that their respectiveinvolvement in his therapy is a matter better left to the experience of theappropriately qualifiedprofessional entrusted with providing therapeuticsupport for the child. Iaccept the fathers evidence about his abstinence from the use of alcohol.I am not persuaded that it is in the childsbest interests that I makeany order regulating either parents consumption or use of alcohol.Further, I am not persuadedthat appropriate or in the childs bestinterests that an order be made, as sought by the mother, to restrict thefathersuse of prescription medication or analgesia or to require him toinform her about such usage or act in the manner she proposes. Iam confidentthat the father will act appropriately in his ingestion of medication whilst thechild is in his care. Iam not persuaded it is in the childs best interests that the Orderrequire his parents to provide the other with the firstright ofrefusal if unable to care for him for one overnight. I arrive at thisconclusion because I consider that such anorder may well be more likely to beproductive of ongoing conflict and disagreement between the parents and alsobecause I considerit an acceptable part of parenting and the discharge ofparental responsibility that each parent be able to make appropriatearrangementsfor the child whilst in their respective care. Themother seeks to be able to take the child out of Australia for the purpose ofholiday travel and, to accommodate this, proposesthat his time with the fatherbe suspended in the manner outlined in her proposed Minute of Order. Iaccept that the opportunity to travel outside of Australia is one which islikely to provide significant benefit to the child. However,the benefits ofsuch travel must be balanced against the benefit I consider he will obtain fromhaving the opportunity to settleinto a new parenting regime in which his timewith the father is increased. GivenDr Hs evidence, the mothers concerns  express or implicit about the impact of change on the childsfunctioning, thefathers concerns that the mother may not return the child to Australiaand the importance of ensuring thathis opportunity to settle into his new careregime of increased time with the father is optimised, I consider that anyinterruptionto the childs ordered opportunity to spend time with thefather is unlikely to be beneficial to him at this stage. At present,I considerthat which is most likely to be most beneficial for the child is a primary focuson establishing his new regime of increasedand overnight time with the fatherand on the continued development of their relationship that such increased timepermits. Inthe circumstances, and for these reasons, I am not persuaded that it ispresently in the childs best interests for thereto be the disruption tohis interaction with the father that would be consequent upon the motherremoving him from Australia forthe purpose of a holiday. Iconsider it likely that a period of 12 months during which there is nointerruption to the childs time with the father willbe of sufficientduration to ensure he has successfully transitioned into his new parentingregime. After this, he should be affordedthe opportunity to travel out of theCommonwealth of Australia with either of his parents during school holidayperiods or at suchother time as may be agreed between them. Icertify that the preceding one hundred and thirty-eight (138) paragraphs are atrue copy of the Reasons for Judgment of the HonourableJustice Hogan deliveredon 3 October 2014. Associate: Date: 3 October 2014 [1] Commenced by the father inthe Federal Magistrates Court in July2011 [2] Affidavit of Dr M filed 7May 2013, Annexure BRM- 2, page10. [3] Affidavit of Dr M filed 07May 2013, Annexure BRM 2 page12. [4] Amended InitiatingApplication filed 31 January 2013 [5] As outlined in his CaseOutline filed 7 May 2013 and his Summary of Argument filed 23 July 2013. [6] Namely, that the child spendtwo full days per fortnight on a weekend as well as two afternoons per week withthe father beforeovernight time wasintroduced. [7] On 11 December2012. [8] Vigano &Desmond [2012] FamCAFC 79. [9] McCall & Clark [2009] FamCAFC 92; (2009) FLC 93-405 at par [118] [120]. [10] See the discussionin Mazorski v Albright [2007] FamCA520. [11] Filed 29 July2013. [12] Affidavit of Ms Cfiled 30 September 2011, Family Report[11.2.8]. [13] Mothersaffidavit filed 3 May 2013,[102]. [14] Affidavit of Ms Cfiled 30 September 2011, Family Report[6.5.1]. [15] Fathersaffidavit filed 7 May 2013,[128]. [16] Mothersaffidavit filed 3 May 2013, annexure RME- 3. [17] Mothersaffidavit filed 3 May 2013, annexureRME-3 [18] Mothersaffidavit filed 3 May 2013, annexure RME-3. [19] Mothersaffidavit filed 3 May 2013, annexureRME-5. [20] Affidavit of Dr Hfiled 25 October 2012, Annexure SH2, page24. [21] Affidavit of Dr G filed3 May 2013, Annexure JS-2. [22] Mothersaffidavit filed 3 May 2013 at[128]. [23] Mothersaffidavit filed 3 May 2013. [24] Mothers affidavit filed 3 May 2013 at par[141]-[142]. [25] Affidavit ofDr L filed 3 May 2013l, annexure SAL2. [26] Affidavit of Mr Essex Snrfiled 7 May 2013, [25]. [27] Mothers affidavit filed 3 May 2013 at177. [28] Affidavit of Mr EssexSnr filed 7 May 2013, [30] [31]. [29] Mothersaffidavit filed 3 May 2013, annexureRME-15. [30] Mothersaffidavit filed 3 May 2013 at[122]. [31] Fathersaffidavit filed 7 May 2013, Annexure JAE-16. [32] AnnexureJAE-4, Fathers affidavit filed 17 December 2012. [33] A psychiatrist whointerviewed the parties and the child on two occasions: first, on 8 and 30August 2011 and, secondly, in February2013. [34] Affidavit of Dr Hfiled 25 October 2012, Report page23. [35] Affidavit of Dr Hfiled 29 July 2013, Report page29. [36] Fathersaffidavit filed 15/10/2012 at[28]. [37] Mothersaffidavit filed 03/05/2013 at[69]. [38] Affidavit of Ms Cfiled 30 September 2011, Family Report par11.2.8. [39] Affidavit of Ms Cfiled 30 September 2011, Family Report par11.2.10. [40] Affidavit of Dr Mfiled 7 May 2013. [41] Affidavitof Ms C filed 7 June 2012, at [8.4]. [42] Affidavit of Dr M filed 7May 2013, Annexure BRM6, Report dated 29 January 2013, page 7. [43] Affidavit of Dr M filed 7May 2013, Annexure BRM6, Report dated 29 January 2013, page9. [44] Affidavit of Dr H filed25 October 2012, Report dated 14 October 2011, page 24. [45] Affidavit of Ms C filed 30September 2011, Family Report par at11.2.14. [46] Affidavit of Dr Mfiled 7 May 2013, Report dated 29 January 2013, page8. [47] Affidavit of Dr M filed7 May 2013, Report dated 29 January 2013, page3. [48] s 61DA(4) of theAct. [49] Family Law Act 1975(Cth) s 65DAC(2). [50] MRR v GR (2010) 240 CLR 461,465-467. [51] s 65DAA(3) of theAct. AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/852.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   