FAMILY LAW  PRACTICEAND PROCEDURE  Stay pending appeal granted with conditions. Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) House v The King [1936] HCA 40; (1936) 55 CLR499 Jackson & Balen (2009) FamCAFC 131 APPLICANT: Ms Rose RESPONDENT: Mr Hodges FILENUMBER: MLC 1454 of 2013 DATE DELIVERED: 29 August 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Melbourne PLACE HEARD: Melbourne JUDGMENT OF: Cronin J HEARING DATE: 29 August 2014 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: Ms Smallwood SOLICITOR FOR THE APPLICANT: CE Family Lawyers COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENT: Mr Dixon QC with Ms Paterson SOLICITOR FOR THE RESPONDENT: JH Legal Pty Ltd ORDERS (1) Thatsubject to the wife paying to the husband $500,000 by 4.00pm on Friday 12September 2014, paragraphs 11 to 16 of the ordersmade on 23 June 2014 arestayed pending determination of the wifes appeal. (2) That the husbands application for costs is stayed until thedetermination of the wifes appeal. (3) That the applicant in a case filed 6 August 2014 and the response theretoare otherwise dismissed. (4) That the reasons this day be transcribed and be placed on the court file. IT IS NOTED that publication of this judgment by this Court underthe pseudonym Rose & Hodges has been approved by the Chief Justicepursuant to s 121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT MELBOURNE FILE NUMBER: MLC 1454 of 2013 Ms Rose Applicant And Mr Hodges Respondent REASONS FOR JUDGMENT Byher application filed on 6 August 2014, Ms Rose, who, for my convenience only, Ishall refer to as the wife, seeks a variety oforders but the over-arching issueis that she seeks a stay of final parenting and property orders that Ipronounced on 23 June 2014after a contested hearing. Thewife filed a notice of appeal on 21 July 2014, which is the appeal the subjectof the stay dispute. I cannot help but observethat that notice of appeal wasdrawn by the wife as a litigant in person and that, to some extent, hashandicapped her position today. The husband opposes the stay application andhas filed a response on 25 August. Counselfor the wife submitted that the stay should be granted on a number of bases. The first was that the wife had to pay the husbandmoney and, having regard tohis high earning capacity, there was no prejudice to him, even though he wasentitled to the fruits ofhis judgment. There is some sense in thatsubmission. Secondly,a number of factual issues would be raised on the appeal, which would requirethe wife to seek to lead further evidenceon the appeal. These related toinaccuracies in the assets and liabilities findings that I made. One, it wassubmitted, relatedto having left an entitlement to money in the partnership ofthe husbands accounting firm, which had clearly been set asideby thatfirm. Another related to money in an account which, it was said, could be seenfrom documents presented by the husband onlydays before the trial began whichhad not been shown to the wife and which had not been included in thejudgment. Thosetwo matters, if accepted and added together, had the effect, according tocounsel for the wife, of increasing the pool by about$300,000. I had somedifficulty with that proposition, because the first of those two items that Imentioned is clearly referredto in the transcript and concerns money set asidefor tax by the firm, in other words, for every asset there will almost certainlybe a liability. There is also the question of whether or not it was thehusbands money in any event. Thesecond, as senior counsel for the husband pointed out, was the account that wasreferred to in the husbands financial statement. In respect of both ofthose matters, it is not to say that the wife cannot seek to put those as partof an application to lead newevidence, but there are significant impedimentsset out in the authorities that she will have to face. Even if she was giventhatpermission and error was detected, the dilemma I face today is that I donot know what the right amount is, according to the wife,that she should bepaying the husband if, indeed, I was wrong about the $730,000 in the firstplace. Thethird submission was that the refusal to grant the stay would render the appealnugatory in the sense that the house would haveto be sold as a consequence ofthe existing orders. The wife wishes to keep the home. However, as wassubmitted by senior counselfor the husband, the share portfolio is thewifes alternative source of capital funding, which could, indeed, satisfythehusbands entitlement. Theshare portfolio was also the subject of the wifes affidavit that, whilstacknowledging that the share amount in the judgmentwas an adjusted figurebecause I added back money that the wife had taken, it was submitted that sodoing was not correct. I rejectthat. Add-backs are permitted but they are notthe norm, because the property no longer usually exists. Aswill be seen from the judgment, I took into account the wifes statementabout what had happened to the sold shares but thatit was not supported by anyevidence. The values in the assets and liabilities list do not have to be theprecise value at thattime but, rather, what the Court considers is the valueattributable to the items at the time that the Court is making theadjustment. Thenotice of appeal filed by the wife on 21 July simply says that the learned trialjudge erred in law in establishing that the wifewould have capacity to make thepayment ordered to the husband. Her second ground as currently pleaded is thatthe change in parentingarrangements is not in the best interests of thechildren, and the third ground is that all assets and income were not consideredin calculation of property settlement. Theauthorities in relation to the stay of a judgment order pending appeal arehardly controversial. They were recently summarisedby the Full Court of thisCourt in Jackson & Balen (2009) FamCAFC 131 at paragraph 28 where theFull Court, referring to earlier decisions, made a number of statements ofprinciple. Those include: the onus toestablish a proper basis for the stay is on the applicant for the stay. Howeverit is not necessary for the applicantto demonstrate any specialor exceptional circumstances; a person who hasobtained a judgment is entitled to the benefit of that judgment; a person who hasobtained a judgment is entitled to presume the judgment is correct; the mere filingof an appeal is insufficient to grant a stay; the applicationmust be bona fides; a stay may begranted on terms that are fair to all parties - this may involve a courtweighing the balance of convenience and thecompeting rights of theparties; a weighing ofthe risk that an appeal may be rendered nugatory if a stay is not granted this will be a substantial factorin determining whether it will beappropriate to grant a stay; some preliminaryassessment of the strength of the proposed appeal  whether the appellanthas an arguable case. Lookingat the three grounds of appeal to which I referred, it is difficult, becauseeach of them, on their face, appears to be anargument about the exercise ofdiscretion. As I observe, the wife will face the prospect that the Full Courtwill ask why that doesnot offend the rule in House v The King [1936] HCA 40; (1936) 55CLR 499. Inthis case, taking into account all of the matters that the Full Court said werethe principles, it is difficult to say that theappeal would be renderednugatory, but out of an abundance of caution I consider it is possible that thatcould occur, because thewife has said in her affidavit, which I have now readin some detail and, I have to observe, has little resemblance to the noticeofappeal, she may have an argument that the $730,000 was outside the bounds ofreasonableness if such things as capital gains taxand GST were not taken intoaccount. The tax account may, in fact, be allowed by the Full Court as anunencumbered asset of thehusband and, indeed, if the Court of Appeal took adifferent view about the earning capacity of the husband and the wife. Buthaving said that, the major problem seems to me that the wife does not addresswhat orders should be made if, indeed, the Courtof Appeal found that I havemade an error. What the wife seeks in her notice of appeal is that the matterbe sent back for retrial. Whilst a court might very well do that, it wouldcertainly be wanting to know what it was that the wife was then seeking, becauseit is conceivable that if the areas are as the wife alleges, the appeal courtmay very well decide to exercise its own discretionand make an adjustmentdepending upon the extent to which they found errors had been made. Lookingat paragraph 10 of the wifes affidavit, I have concluded that there is atleast $500,000 available immediately thatcould be paid to the husband withoutany effect on the structure of the orders if they were to remain intact ratherthan being implementedat the moment. Thewife seems to be saying in her affidavit that that is not correct, because shesays that if the shares were sold there would beconsequences, but that dependsa little bit on whether or not I accept that the $500,000 loan that underpinnedthe shares is, infact, secured against the home. As I pointed out indiscussion with counsel for the wife, it seems to me that that would not beaffected, providing there were no other orders currently implemented. In myview, there is no logical reason why the wife shouldnot be paying the husbandat least $500,000, and that could be done within 14 days. Those shares arereadily available to be sold. Thewife also sought a stay of the childrens orders. Nothing, other than thechildren seem to disagree about those orders,seems to underlie what is theground of the appeal. In my view, there is no basis in this particular case tojustify a stay in respectof those orders. Thesame must be said of the child support orders and, in any event, the mostfundamental question in relation to the stay of thatsort of order would be thatif the stay was not granted, the appeal would be rendered nugatory. Quiteobviously, those are mattersrelating to money that the child support agencyand, indeed, the Court could easily and, indeed, the Court could easily adjustlateron. On that basis, I could not find that a refusal of the stay would meanthat the appeal was rendered nugatory. Ihave also considered the other matters that the wife has sought, particularlyparagraph 5 of her application. This seems to meto be an application againstthe husband that he be restrained from altering his financial positions. Thereis absolutely no evidencethat I can see that the husband has done that sincethe judgment was pronounced, nor is there anything that I can find in myjudgmentto indicate that I had any concerns about the husband doing that priorto the trial commencing and, indeed, I see no evidence thatwould satisfy theprinciples in Mullen v De Bry. Onthat basis, the only orders I am prepared to make today is that there will be astay of paragraphs 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 of theorders I made on 23 June 2014,but that order is conditional upon the wife paying to the husband $500,000within 14 days. Ido not propose to make an order in relation to a default provision but, on thecontrary, will give the parties liberty to applyon short notice in the eventthat the payment is not made. I will have those orders published later thisafternoon and the reasonstranscribed. RECORDED : NOT TRANSCRIBED Theresan application now, arising out of todays proceedings, for costs, that itnot be determined. That is opposedon the basis that it should be determinedtoday. The basis upon which the husband does not want it determined today isthat we shouldsee what happens in the appeal. Imust say, there is some sense in that, notwithstanding it may mean that theparties have to come back again, but much will dependupon what the Full Courtsays. I propose to grant a stay of the determination of that particular issueuntil after the appeal isdetermined. I certify that thepreceding twenty-three (23) paragraphs are a true copy of the reasons forjudgment of the Honourable Justice Cronindelivered on 29 August2014. Associate: Date: 21 October 2014 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/894.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            