FAMILY LAW  CHILDREN  With whom achild lives and spends time  Where the parties have reached consent inrelationto a number of final parenting orders  Where the Court issatisfied that the orders meet the childs best interests Wherethe only remaining issues for trial are whether the father should receive yearlyschool reports and school photographsand the form of the final orders made withrespect to any prospect of the father making a further application for parentingorderswhen the child attains the age of 14 years Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) APPLICANT: Mr Hensen RESPONDENT: Ms Lyndall INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: Jennifer Boulton FILENUMBER: BRC 6974 of 2008 DATE DELIVERED: 8 October 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Brisbane PLACE HEARD: Brisbane JUDGMENT OF: Kent J HEARING DATE: 8 October 2014 REPRESENTATION FOR THE APPLICANT: In person SOLICITORFOR THE RESPONDENT: Ms McCormick, Matthew Love Family Lawyers SOLICITOR FOR THE INDEPENDENT CHILDRENSLAWYER: Jennifer Boulton Solicitor ORDERS IT ISORDERED BY CONSENT ON A FINAL BASIS THAT: TheMother shall have sole parental responsibility for the child, S born ... May2007. 2. The child live with the Mother. 3. The Fatherspend no time or communicate with the child. IT IS FURTHER ORDEREDTHAT: Thetrial of these proceedings listed for four (4) days commencing 3 November 2014 be vacated. Theissue as to whether the Father is to receive school reports and school photographs for the child and any issue as to there being furtherparenting proceedings upon the child attaining the age of fourteen (14) years beadjourned for further hearing before the Honourable Justice Kent for one (1) day commencing at 10.00 am on 31 October 2014 at the Family Court ofAustralia, Brisbane Registry. Pursuantto rule 5.06(1)(a) of the Family Law Rules leave is given to the Mothers witness Ms B to provide evidence by telephone at the hearing ofthese proceedings on 31 October 2014. Pursuantto s 62B and s 65DA(2) of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth), the particulars of the obligations these Orders create and theparticulars of the consequences that may follow if a person contravenes these Orders, anddetails of who can assist parties to adjust to and comply with an order, are set out inthe document entitled Parenting orders  obligations, consequencesand who can help, a copy of which is annexed to these Orders. IT IS NOTED that publication of this judgment by this Court underthe pseudonym Hensen & Lyndall has been approved by the Chief Justicepursuant to s 121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT BRISBANE FILE NUMBER:BRC 6974 of 2008 Mr Hensen Applicant And Ms Lyndall Respondent EX TEMPORE REASONS FOR JUDGMENT Theseproceedings pursuant to Part VII of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth)(the Act) concern the child S, born in May 2007 who is currentlyseven years of age (the child). Theparties to the proceedings are the applicant, Mr Hensen(the father), the respondent, Ms Lyndall (themother)and the Independent Childrens Lawyer (theICL) appointed pursuant to s 68L of the Act to independently representthe childs interests in these proceedings. Byway of brief history, the mother and father met in 2006 and were in a briefrelationship which subsisted only for about a month,from October to November2006, during which time the child was conceived. Obviously, the parties hadfinally separated before thechild was born in May 2007. Subsequentto the childs birth, the parties entered into final parenting orders byconsent on 4 August 2008, which providedfor the parents to have equalshared parental responsibility, for the child to live with the mother and spendtime with the fatheron a gradually increasing basis, eventually leading toovernight time provisions each alternate weekend commencing in 2010. Aswill be discussed further, those orders were subsequently discharged followingthe filing of the fathers Initiating Applicationin the then FederalMagistrates Court on 23 August 2011, which sought to amend the consent ordersand the mothers response,which sought to discharge those consent ordersand have the child live with her due to concerns of sexual abuse arising out ofaninvestigation by the Department of Communities, Child Safety and DisabilityServices (the Department). Followingthe parents separation and in about May 2007, the father commenced arelationship with one Ms O and they subsequentlymarried. Ms O had twodaughters from her marriage with Mr O. A girl born January 2002, now aged 12years and a younger girl bornJanuary 2006, now aged eight years (the Ochildren). InAugust 2011 the younger girl referred to, made disclosures that the father hadsexually abused her and encouraged her to have sexualcontact with the child -allegations which the father vehemently denied. The allegations related todisclosures that the young girlhad licked [the childs]willy; that she had licked the fathers penis; that the father hadtouched herprivate parts and that the father had her look at pictures ofpenises in magazines and made her lick them. Theseallegations resulted in the Department undertaking an investigation andassessment in relation to the O children from Augustto October 2011. Theoutcome of that investigation was recorded by the Department as substantiatedemotional harm caused by sexualabuse in relation to the younger girl, with thefather being identified by the Department as the person responsible for theharm;whilst the outcome with respect to the older O girl was recorded by theDepartment as unsubstantiated due to insufficient evidence. Ultimately,no action was taken by the Department in relation to the O children as theparents of those children were found to haveacted protectively of the childrengiven that Ms O ended her relationship with the father and prevented him fromhaving any furthercontact with the O children. Somesix Magellan reports have been prepared in these proceedings in relation to thechild. The first Magellan report, dated 21 November2011, records that thechild and the younger O child experienced emotional harm as a result of sexualabuse for which the fatherwas said to be responsible. Further, it was assessedthat the child would be at an unacceptable risk of emotional and physical harmcaused by sexual abuse if he were to be in the unsupervised care of the father. The Department recorded a finding that the childwas a child in need ofprotection due to orders of this Court, then in place, which provided for thefather to have unsupervisedovernight contact with the child. However, it seemsthe Department did not intervene at that time as the father agreed to havesupervisedtime only with the child and the parents arranged to separatelyattend family group meetings to develop a case plan supervised bytheDepartment. BellJ heard the trial of these proceedings over some seven days between 10 and14 September 2012 and on 18 and 19 March 2013. On24 May 2013 his Honour madeinterim orders and delivered Reasons for Judgment. Without incorporating inthese Reasons all that hisHonour had to say in his Reasons (the Judgmentdelivered on 24 May 2013), I note that at paragraph 64 of his Reasons Bell J,afteroutlining the available evidence and his consideration of that evidence,concluded that the father would be an unacceptable riskto the child if he hadunsupervised time with the child. Itis clear from those Reasons that the remaining considerations for his Honour interms of the further trial of these proceedingswas whether or not the childwould benefit, or not, from any supervised time with the father and whether ornot the mother wouldsuffer a diminishment of her capacity to appropriatelyparent the child if there were to be any time with the father, even on asupervisedbasis. With those matters in mind, Bell J made the interim ordersreferred to, pursuant to which the trial of the further issueswas adjournedwith the child to live with the mother and spend supervised time with the fatherat a contact centre for some fivemonths before a further updated family reportwas obtained. On14 November 2013 Bell J ordered the listing of the further trial of the timeissue which was originally envisaged to commence on1 April 2014. In theresult, due to ill health of Bell J, the trial did not proceed and went througha case management process resultingin me listing it for a pre-trial mention on17 September 2014, when I then listed the trial to commence for four dayson 3 November2014. Inthe period under discussion the further family report has been obtained andfurther evidence has been forthcoming. In particular,the father has filed anaffidavit on 26 September 2014. Under a heading, Statement forFinalisation of Custody, thereis, in summary, the fathersposition that  maintaining his stance that he did not sexually abuse anychild, assertingthat this Court and the Department are biasedagainst him; and claims that the mother has taken steps adversely tohim toprevent him having time with the child; but importantly including in hisaffidavit at page 4 the following: I therefore suggest for [the childs] best interest, emotion and mentalhealth the following: Until [the child] is 14 years of age I GiveParental and legal responsibilities to [the mother]. 2. Ask to receive from [the childs] school his reports. Beissued with yearly school photos to be billed to myself to a cost of $50PA. 4. [The child] not be allowed to leave Australia. Ishould record that following the Departments investigations; the childlived with the mother and had no time or communicationwith the father betweenSeptember 2011 and June 2013. From July 2013 until December 2013 the childspent supervised time with thefather at the C Contact Centre in accordance withthe orders of Bell J to which I have referred. However, that time ceased inDecember2013 with the last occasion occurring on 13 December 2013. Takenfrom the updated family report of psychologist Mr D, which was filed on 20 March2014; and from reports from the subject ContactCentre; and the childsschool and the childs counselling at E Counselling Practice; there was abody of evidence indicatingthat the childs behaviour and copingdeteriorated over the six month period that he spent supervised time with thefather. In particular, it is reported that the child displayed increasedsexualised behaviours and trauma type symptoms, for example, anxiety. I note,in particular, at paragraph 52 of his updated report, Mr D summarises thesexualised behaviours, noting these too had decreasedsince the cessation ofsupervised time with the father in December 2013. Underthe heading, Summary and Conclusion, commencing at paragraph 77 ofhis updated report filed 20 March 2014, MrD made various conclusions andrecommendations regarding the childs sexualised behaviours and his timewith the father. Theymay be summarised as follows: 79. [Thechilds] behavioural and emotional declines would appear to besymptomatic of re-exposure to trauma stimuli associating with hisfather. ... Thedeclines in [the childs] behaviours and the increase in the presence of[the mothers] symptoms of depression, anxietyand stress indicate thather parenting of [the child] was being compromised when [the child] was havingtime with his father. Consequentlyif [the mothers] parenting iscompromised, in turn [the childs] childhood experiences too are beingcompromised, ashe is being deprived of the opportunity to have positive andhealthy maternal care provided to him by his otherwise competent andnormallyfunctioning mother. [Themother] highlighted the changes in [the childs] behaviours in paragraph52 of this report. If [the mothers] claimsare considered as credible,then it is hard to justify any ongoing relationship between [the child] and [thefather]. The types ofanti-social behaviours that have been reported about [thechild] would have grave implications for his development if such behaviourscontinued. Iam unable to envisage benefit for [the child] by his father receivinginformation about [the childs] education, health andwelfare. Underthe heading, Recommendations, Mr D recorded at paragraph 86 of hisreport: Irecommend that [the mother] have sole parental responsibility and that the Courtdoes not make Orders for [the child] to have timewith his fatherMr [Hensen]. Attodays hearing and consistent with his affidavit, the father hasconfirmed that he consents to a final order by which themother has soleparental responsibility for the child. Thefather also confirms his consent to an order that there be no order for time orcommunication as between the child and the father. Theremaining issues became the question of whether the father ought receive yearlyschool reports and school photographs and thechild leaving Australia. In thecourse of the hearing today the father did not persist in seeking any order tothe effect that thechild not be allowed to leave Australia in circumstanceswhere the mother was to be having sole parental responsibility and whenthechild would be living with her and having no time or communication with thefather. Theonly issue remaining for a trial are thus - whether or not the father shouldreceive school reports and school photographs. Eachof the parties appearing before me today have confirmed that the only witnessesrequired to give oral evidence with respect tothat issue are Mr D, thefamily report writer; the mothers treating psychologist and the motherherself. In those circumstancesit seems to me that the trial of that remainingissue can comfortably be completed within one day and by agreement of allpartiesthe ICL will notify the Court after consultation with the motherslawyers with respect to her psychologists availability,as to a date forthe trial in either the week beginning 20 October 2014 or the following weekbeginning 27 October 2014. Inthe meantime, I am satisfied that it is in the childs best interests thatfinal orders be made in the terms as sought nowby all of the parties includingthe father, with respect to the child living with the mother and having no timeor communicationwith the father and for the mother to have sole parentalresponsibility. Itseems to me that the only other remaining issue, aside from the school reportsand yearly photograph issue would be the form ofthe final orders made withrespect to any prospect of the father returning the matter to Court. As alreadynoted, there is referencein the fathers affidavit to the time until thechild turns 14 years of age. Forpresent purposes, all that needs to be done is to make final orders in the termsagreed so far as parental responsibility andlive with and communication isconcerned, leaving to the further hearing of the matter later this month, theother issues referredto. Iam satisfied on the evidence to which I have referred and the fact of theparties consent to orders in those terms that theseorders best meet thechilds best interests within the meaning of Part VII of the Act. Itherefore make those orders and will adjourn the further trial of theoutstanding issues to the date as to be advised by the ICLas indicated. I certify that the preceding twenty-eight (28) paragraphs are atrue copy of the reasons for judgment of the Honourable Justice Kentdeliveredon 8 October 2014. Associate: Date: 8 October2014 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/877.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         