FAMILY LAW  CHILDREN  Contravention contraventions alleged on first weekend of orders being made wheresettled means of communication via text message  wherecommunication book was not used  where make up time is ordered Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) s 70NAE APPLICANT: Mr Girst RESPONDENT: Ms Girst FILENUMBER: PAC 664 of 2009 DATE DELIVERED: 26 September 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Parramatta PLACE HEARD: Parramatta JUDGMENT OF: Hannam J HEARING DATE: 26 September 2014 REPRESENTATION APPLICANT- SELFREPRESENTED: Mr Girst COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENT: Ms Spain SOLICITOR FOR THE RESPONDENT: Watts McCray Kernans Lawyers ORDERS (1) Leaveis granted to file the affidavit of the respondent sworn on 16 June 2014 incourt today. (2) The contravention application relating to an alleged contravention of Order11 of 13 July 2012 on 5 July 2012 is dismissed onthe basis that the orderalleged to have been breached was not yet in existence. (3) The contravention application relating to an alleged contravention of Order5.4.1 of 13 July 2012 on the 22 December 2012 isdismissed as there isinsufficient evidence to establish a case to answer. (4) The contravention alleging a contravention of order 5.1 of 13 July 2012 on13 February 2013 is dismissed as there is insufficientevidence to establish acase to answer. (5) The contravention application alleging a contravention of order 10 of 13July 2012 is dismissed. (6) The contravention application alleging a contravention of the orders of 13July 2012 on 15 February 2013 is proved. (7) The contravention application alleging a contravention of order 20 of 13July 2012 during March 2013 is dismissed. (8) That the father shall spend time with the children in addition to the ordersof 13 July 2012 as follows: (a) From afterschool Friday until 4pm Saturday on the weekend of 17 October 2014 and 18October 2014. (b) This timeshall be conducted under the same arrangement provided for under the Orders inrelation to the pick-up and deliveryof thechildren IT IS NOTED that publication ofthis judgment by this Court under the pseudonym Girst & Girst hasbeen approved by the Chief Justice pursuant to s 121(9)(g) of the Family LawAct 1975 (Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT PARRAMATTA FILE NUMBER:PAC 664 of 2014 Mr Girst Applicant And Ms Girst Respondent REASONS FOR JUDGMENT Byan application filed in this court on 10 April 2013, the father, Mr Girstalleges that on six occasions the mother contravenedorders made by this courton the 13 July 2012, being the primary orders. The allegations of contraventionsrelate to circumstancesthat commenced, it would appear, from the very firstweek of the operation of those orders. Three of the contraventions weredismissedon the basis that there was insufficient evidence brought by theapplicant to establish that there was a case to answer. Two of themwereadmitted and in respect of a third, there was sufficient evidence for a case tobe answered and the wife adhered to her denialthat she had contravened theorder. Thefirst of the remaining allegations relates to an alleged contravention of order10 of the primary orders. This order providesthat the parties are tocommunicate in relation to parenting by a communication book and by SMS textmessage, if contact needs tobe made in 48 hours or on an urgent basis. Thepart of the order said to have been contravened relates to the communicationbook. That order provides that the parties are tocommunicate in relation toparenting issues by a communication book which is to be placed into thechildrens bag at the commencementand conclusion of each of thefathers periods with the children and neither parent shall use this bookto denigrate each other. Theallegation is that on 18 July 2012, the respondent mother contravened that orderby not placing a communication book into thechildrens bag at thecommencement of the fathers period of time with the children. The motheradmitted that she hadcontravened the order, in that she admits she did notplace the book in the childrens bag and says that she has establishedareasonable excuse for the contravention of that order. Thecircumstances which amount to a reasonable excuse are set out in s70NAE(1) ofthe Family Law Act 1975 (the Act) which provides that the circumstancesin which a person may be taken to have had, for the purposes of this division, areasonable excuse for contravening an order under this Act affecting childreninclude, but are not limited to the circumstances setout in subsections (2),(4), (5), (6) and (7). Therespondent mother relies upon that subsection that says that if the court issatisfied that she ought to be excused in respectof the contravention that itamounts to a reasonable excuse. It is essentially leaving it a discretionarymatter for the court asto whether that amounts to reasonable excuse. Themother says in her affidavit and it was not disputed, in the sense that she wasnot cross-examined, that order 10 is a mutualobligation as both parties arerequired to communicate by means of a communication book. She says that it issomething that neitherparty has done since the time of the orders. She alsosays that the book was handed in as evidence in 13 July 2012 and that thepartieshave communicated by text message since that date. Thefather says very little concerning this in his affidavit. He relies on the factthat although it is a mutual obligation, clearlythe obligation is first on themother because it is the mother who is required to place the book into thechildrens bag atthe commencement of their time with him. Then it becomeshis obligation to place the book into the bag at the conclusion of the timewithhim. He says that he cant put something in at the conclusion of time ifthat something hasnt been put in at thecommencement of the time. It isclearly meant to be something that they mutually do together. Althoughit seems quite incredible to me that the mother proffers as an excuse, that thecommunication book was handed up in Court,there seems absolutely no reason whyshe couldnt have purchased another one. It is also incredible that thefather says thathaving not seen a book in the bag, that he could not havepurchased one and started it, and that over two years after the event,thismatter is continued to be seriously litigated in Court, where either one of theparties could have brought it to an end, bypurchasing a communication book,writing things in it and putting in the bag. Presumablythe Court put the particular orders in place for good reason and it isconcerning that this allegation appears to havearisen on the very first weekendafter the orders were made. However,it does seem rather sensible that the parties have settled into a process ofbeing able to communicate with each other viaSMS not just for urgent mattersbut for every day matters. I must say that it is rather bizarre when that is thesettled means ofcommunication, that two years after the event the fathercomplains of not using the communication book, when if it was somethingthat heparticularly wanted to do, he could have purchased one himself and started theprocess and also made it clear that he wishedto stick to the orders. Imust consider all of the circumstances, including the actions of the partiessubsequently in that neither of them purchased a newcommunication book andstarted using it. Neither identified to the other party that they wished to havethat as the preferred meansof communication for everyday matters. The father,if it was so important to him that that order be complied with (and as I say,presumably it was put in place for good reason) could have just bought anothercommunication book and started the process off. Inthose circumstances, in my view, the respondent ought to be excused in respectof that contravention, and accordingly I find thatcontravention notproved. Thenext contravention in time is a matter where the mother admits that she didcontravene the orders, in that she took the childrento Queensland for a familyfunction at a time that was on a weekend when the father was to spend time withthe children. She doesntproffer the fact that the parties have had a bitof give and take between them, which I must say is to their credit, that theyareable to on occasions be generous enough for the sake of the children to havesome time outside the orders and it is probably notunreasonable that she wouldhave hoped that that would happen in this situation, but she does not profferthat as a reasonable excuse.Accordingly, I find that contravention proved. Thethird remaining contravention is in relation to order 20, which is an order thatreads; The mother shall not enrol the children in anyextra-curricular activity to be conducted during time to be spent between thechildrenand their father, without first obtaining his written consent. There is no dispute between the parties that the children were enrolled at therelevant time, that is March 2013, in Netball andSoccer, and that Soccer gamesdid take place on a Saturday, and that training took place during the week andpotentially at timesthat the children were spending time with their father. Howeverthere is no evidence to establish that the mother did enrol the children inthese activities which were to be conducted duringthe time to be spent betweenthe children and their father. There is uncontradicted evidence, in the sensethat the father chosenot to cross-examine the mother, that the particulararrangements that the mother was able to make with those responsible for theadministration of Netball and Soccer, was that the children were able toparticipate and be part of the team, even though they mayonly be able to attendgames every second weekend, and also miss out on some of their training. Thefather relies upon the fact that the emails at the relevant time say over andover again Would you please agree for thechildren to go to agame? clearly on an upcoming weekend when the father was to spend timewith the children. However theexchange of emails also makes it clear that overand over that the mother also says that It is your choice and thatIt is up to you, directed to the father as to, whether he is goingto allow the game to be played on that particularweekend. Itis fortunate for the children that the particular local sporting clubs were ableto be flexible enough that they could participatein a team sport even thoughthey did not play every weekend. There is uncontradicted evidence that that wasthe arrangement. Inthese circumstances there is no evidence as to a critical element that isrequired to be proved. That is, prior written consentis only to be sought inrespect of an extra-curricular activity to be conducted during time to be spentwith the children and theirfather and that has not been established in thismatter. Accordingly I find that contravention not proved. Inthis matter, having found that the mother contravened the order on one occasionbeing on the weekend of 15 February 2012 when shefailed to make the childrenavailable to the father in accordance with the orders, I am now to make an orderin relation to thatcontravention. Ithas been urged upon me by the mother not the make any order, though I have somedoubt that the Act provides for that. In any event,the mother relies upon heruncontradicted evidence that the father in fact spent some time additional tothat which he is entitledto spend with the children under the orders and thatshe understood that to be make up time for the time that was missed. Unfortunately,although the mother may have regarded it in that way, there was no evidence thatit was something that was discussedbetween the parties as to be treated thatway. It appears that the children did miss out on some of the time to be spentwith theirfather to which they are entitled to under the orders. Inmy view an order providing for the children to spend the equivalent time thatthey missed out on spending with their father isthe appropriate order in thesecircumstances. Havingmade some inquiries with the parties as to a convenient time for that to occur,I order in addition to the time the childrenare to spend with their fatherunder the current orders, they are also to spend time with him from after schoolFriday until 4pmSaturday on the weekend of the 17th October and18th October 2014 under the same arrangements provided for under theorders in relation to the pick-up and delivery of the children. Themother seeks that her costs in relation to the contravention be paid and thefather seeks that it be the usual circumstance, thatis each party bears theirown costs. In relation to the mothers application it has been put thatshe has been put to considerableexpense as these matters have come back tocourt on three occasions and that she has engaged legal representation. Ihave no evidence before me as to the financial circumstances of each of theparties. I dont know but it hasnt beensuggested to me that themother is legally aided. Asfar as the conduct of the proceedings is concerned, although the father wasunsuccessful in five of the six contraventions he brings,in my view, there isnothing to suggest that he has conducted the proceedings in any way improperly.The reality is that he may havebeen at a disadvantage not having had legaladvice, but that could have been remedied by him seeking legal advice inrelation tocontraventions. Nonetheless there is nothing to suggest he has doneanything improper. Theproceedings were necessitated by the failure of a party, being the mother, tocomply with previous orders of the court so faras the one allegation that isproved against her is concerned. Neitherof the parties is wholly unsuccessful in the proceedings. Although the majorityof the fathers contraventions werenot proved, he is not in the categoryof being someone wholly unsuccessful particularly because in addition to thematter that wasproved; the mother had in fact also admitted one of the othercontraventions although ultimately a reasonable excuse was found. Inall of the circumstances in my view, it is appropriate for each of the partiesto bear their own costs in relation to these proceedings.No order as to costsis made. I certify that the preceding thirty (30) paragraphs area true copy of the reasons for judgment of the Honourable Justice Hannamdeliveredon 26 September 2014. Legal Associate: Date:14 October 2014 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/872.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   