FAMILY LAW  PROPERTYSETTLEMENT  INTERIM PROCEEDINGS  Where the husband seeks ordersfor the sale of the home Where the home is the only significant asset ofthe parties  Where the wife resides in the home with the three children Where the wife has made a substantial homemaking and financialcontribution  Where the quantum of the assetpool has not beenestablished  Consideration of what is just and equitable  Wherethe sale of the home would resultin no assets left for distribution in thefinal property settlement  Application dismissed. FAMILY LAW  PROPERTY SETTLEMENT  SPOUSAL MAINTENANCE Where the husband seeks to discharge orders in relationto spousalmaintenance and the payment of the mortgage on the home  Where thehusband has substantial tax liabilities Where the husband is a highincome earner  Where the husbands income has reduced Consideration of the criteriafor variation of spousal maintenance in s 83 ofthe Family Law Act 1975 (Cth)  Change of circumstances Orders for the payment of the mortgage discharged  Orders for payment ofspousalmaintenance varied. Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) ss 75, 79, 83 and106B Strahan and Strahan (2011) FLC93-466 APPLICANT: Mr James FIRST RESPONDENT: Ms Snipper SECOND RESPONDENT THIRD RESPONDENT H & Ors trading as Company J M & Ors trading as CompanyC FILENUMBER: SYC 1913 of 2012 DATE DELIVERED: 20 October 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Sydney PLACE HEARD: Sydney JUDGMENT OF: Rees J HEARING DATE: 1 October 2014 REPRESENTATION THE APPLICANT: In Person COUNSEL FOR THE FIRSTRESPONDENT: Mr Batey SOLICITOR FOR THE FIRST RESPONDENT: Harris Freidman Lawyers COUNSEL FOR THE SECOND RESPONDENT The 2nd respondent was excused SOLICITORFOR THE SECOND RESPONDENT NSolicitors COUNSEL FOR THE THIRD RESPONDENT SOLICITOR FOR THE THIRD RESPONDENT Mr Thomas King & Wood Mallesons ORDERS IT IS ORDERED (1) ThatOrders 1 and 2 of the application of Mr James (the husband) filed18 December 2013, seeking orders for interimproperty distribution isdismissed. (2) That Order 5 of the Orders made on 14 June 2012 be discharged as at13 December 2013. (3) That the husband pay interim spousal maintenance to Ms Snipper (thewife) in the sum of $2,657 per week, paymentsto be made in accordancewith Order 4 of these Orders. (4) That the 3rd Respondent pay to the wife such amount as the Courtmay determine (such determination being notified to the 3rdRespondent by service of the Court order no later than seven days before suchpayment is to be made) from any money otherwise payableto the husband by the3rd Respondent by way of company drawings and, in addition, 35 percent of any money otherwise payable to the husband by way of balanceofundistributed profit payments. (5) That for the purpose of Order 4 of these Orders the amount determined is$2,657 per week or $11,514 per month. (6) That within 14 days the husband is to provide to the solicitors for the wifethe names of three suitably qualified experts tovalue the husbandsinterest in Company C and to value the shares in A Pty Limited. (7) That within 14 days the husband is to provide to the solicitors for the wifethe names of three suitably qualified experts toreport on the wifesreasonable remuneration. (8) Upon receipt of the names in Orders 6 and 7 of these Orders, thewifes solicitors shall, within seven days, notify thehusband of herelection of the single experts and the parties shall forthwith jointly instructthe single experts. (9) The costs of the single experts are to be met, in the first instance,equally by the husband and the wife. IT IS NOTED thatpublication of this judgment by this Court under the pseudonym James &Snipper and Ors has been approved by the Chief Justice pursuant to s121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT SYDNEY FILE NUMBER:SYC 1913 of 2012 Mr James Applicant And Ms Snipper First Respondent And H & Ors trading as NSolicitors Second Respondent And M & ORS trading asCompany C REASONS FOR JUDGMENT MsSnipper (the wife) and Mr James (the husband)commenced cohabitation in 1990, married in December 1994and separated on28 November 2011. Theyhave three children, the youngest of whom is four years old. The children liveprimarily with the wife. Thehusband is a senior executive in Company C (the Company). Theonly significant asset of the parties is the former matrimonial home at Suburb J(the home) which is registeredin the sole name of the wife. Thatproperty was purchased in 2010 for $1.25 million of which $950,000 was borrowedfrom the CommonwealthBank and $300,000 was advanced by the wifes mother.There is neither agreement nor evidence of the present value of the home. On14 June 2012 Justice Ryan made orders in defended proceedings relating tospousal maintenance, child support and interim propertysettlement. Relevantlyher Honour ordered: IT IS ORDERED THAT (1) That Order 1.1 of the orders dated 11 April 2012 is discharged. PENDING FURTHER ORDER (2) That [Mr James] (the husband) pay spousal maintenance to [MsSnipper] (the wife) in the amount of$8,000.00 per calendar month,which amount is to be paid monthly on the 12th day of each calendar month, thefirst such payment tobe made on 13 July 2012. (3) That the wifes child support departure application in relation to thechildren [G] born ... 2002, [B] born ... 2004 and[R] born ... 2010 isdismissed. (4) That from each profit share and performance bonus paid by [Company C] to thehusband 35% of the gross amount paid to the husbandis, by way of interimspousal maintenance, to be paid to the wife. (5) That the husband pays as and when they fall due all instalments in respectof the Commonwealth Bank mortgage secured over thefamily home at [D Street,Suburb J]. (6) That the husband forthwith signs all necessary documents directing theresponsible partners and/or the payroll manager of [CompanyC] to pay theamounts referred to in Orders 2, 4 and 5 above for monies payable to himdirectly to the wife and in relation to themortgage, directly to the bank. (7) The Court notes the husbands undertaking that he will direct hisemployers to pay to the wife $4,500.00 per month whichis to be applied by herto the childrens support. (8) That all outstanding applications for interim orders are dismissed. THE INTERIM PROCEEDINGS On18 December 2013 the husband filed an Application in a Case. The orders which hesought fell into three categories. The husbandfirstly sought orders for the sale of the home and the distribution of the wholeof the proceeds of sale to him by wayof interim property settlement. Secondly, thehusband sought to discharge the orders in relation to spousal maintenance,including the payment of the mortgage onthe home, made on 14 June 2012, as tothe date upon which they stand paid. Thirdly, thehusband sought procedural directions in relation to valuations in relation towhich the parties were in agreement andthose orders will be made byconsent. Additionally,the husband sought to be released from an undertaking in relation to childmaintenance. Since an assessment has issuedin relation to Child Support, theundertaking in relation to child maintenance has no application and it is notnecessary to releasethe husband from compliance. NoOrders were sought against the 2nd Respondent who was excused fromparticipation in these proceedings. THE HUSBANDS APPLICATION FOR INTERIM PROPERTYSETTLEMENT Thehome, where the wife and the three children live, and of which the wife is theregistered proprietor, is the only substantialasset of the parties. The husbandin his interim application seeks orders that the home be sold, the mortgagedischarged and theentire balance paid to the Deputy Commissioner of Taxation(the ATO) in respect of the husbands tax liability. Itis noted that Ryan J found that the husbands liability to the ATO at14 June 2012 was in excess of $300,000.The debt nowstands at almost $900,000. Thewife in her substantive application seeks to retain the home. Order5 of the Orders which were made on 14 June 2012 required the husband to pay theinstalments in respect of the Commonwealth Bankof Australia (theBank) mortgage secured over the home as they fell due. The husband hasnot complied with that Orderand has made no payment in relation to the mortgagesince December 2013. As a result of the husbands failure to pay themortgagepayments, the mortgagee has filed an application seeking leave to issuea writ of possession and judgment against the wife in thesum of $959,808. Thewife hopes to be able to come to an agreement with the Bank that will allow herto retain the home. Insupport of his application for the sale of the home and the distribution of theentirety of the proceeds on his behalf, the husbandrelies upon the fact thatthe ATO has instituted proceedings against him in the Supreme Court of New SouthWales and given noticethat it intends to file for default judgment. The totalamount claimed by the ATO as at 1 August 2014 was $881,482. Theapplication of the husband is an application for an order for an interimproperty settlement. The approach to such an applicationis well settled and setout in the decision of the Full Court in Strahan and Strahan (2011) FLC93-466. Beforethe Court decides to depart from the usual approach, that a property settlementis determined in a final hearing, the Courtmust be satisfied that it is in theinterests of justice to do so. That requires a preliminary assessment, at least,of the meritsof the opposing applications, pursuant to ss 79 and 75(2) of theFamily Law Act 1975 (Cth) (the Act). Inconsidering whether or not to make an order for an interim property settlement,the Court would be concerned not to make an orderthat could not, at the finalhearing, be accommodated within the broad outcome of the final distribution ofthe parties property. Thefinal quantum of the net asset pool has not yet been established. Inhis Financial Statement, relied upon in these proceedings, sworn on18 December 2013, the husband deposes to owning personal propertyto avalue of $27,000 and superannuation worth $70,000. The superannuation fund isnon-complying and there is no evidence of thelikely liabilities which willarise because of the non-compliance. He discloses liabilities as guarantor ofthe mortgage over thehome in the sum of $960,000 and a further liability, ashas been referred to above, to the ATO. The husband discloses total liabilitiesin his Financial Statement of $2,083,202. Thewife in her Financial Statement, sworn 21 February 2014, discloses that she ownsthe home which she estimates to be valued at$1.3 million. She hassuperannuation of $138,401. Inher Financial Statement, the wife deposes to a mortgage over the home in the sumof $934,586.61 leaving, on her evidence, an equityin the home of approximately$365,000. Theparties commenced co-habitation in 1990 and lived in an unencumbered apartmentwhich was owned by the wife. The husband did nothave any assets at thecommencement of the relationship. Untilthe husband gained his professional qualifications in 1993, he was essentiallysupported by the wife. By the time the partiesmarried in December 1994, thehusband was professionally employed. In2000 and 2001, the wifes mother gave the wife approximately$1.55 million. It is not disputed that the parties opened ajoint bankaccount, the funds from the wifes mother were deposited into that accountand the husband undertook to establishand manage a share investment portfolio.It is not disputed that the husband redirected the bank statements away from thehome toa post office box so that they were not available to the wife. Itis the wifes case that, without her knowledge, the whole of that sum waslost by the husband, not by investing in the sharemarket, but by gambling. Inthe proceedings before me, the husband relied upon three affidavits sworn on 18December 2013, 11 March 2013 and 25 September 2013.He also relied upon aFinancial Statement sworn on 18 December 2013. In none of those affidavits doesthe husband address his contributions,pursuant to s 79 of the Act, to theacquisition, maintenance and improvement of the property of the parties, or tothe welfare of the family. Inrelation to the issue of the wifes assertion of monies lost by gambling,the husband, in his affidavit sworn 25 September2014, says Since January 2012 I have not gambled. I do not feel I have any need to gamblesince that time. I am deeply committed to that position. Thus,in considering whether or not it is just and equitable to make any orders forinterim property settlement, the only evidencebefore the Court is the evidenceof the wife that she contributed an unencumbered apartment at the time of themarriage, that hermother contributed $1,155,000 in 2001 and 2002 and that whenthe home was acquired a further sum of $300,000 was provided as a giftfrom thewifes mother. Itis common ground between the parties that the wife has been the primary carer ofthe children and that the husband has been infulltime employment, at leastsince the time of the marriage. Thus,for the purpose of this decision the wifes contributions are theunencumbered apartment at the date of co-habitation;the further contribution byher mother of $1,550,000; the monies advanced by the wifes mother of$300,000 for the purchaseof the home, and her home making and parentingcontributions. On any view, those contributions are substantial. Inaddition, the wife maintains a claim that the husband has committed waste bygambling away the substantial amount of money thatwas given to the wife by hermother. She also alleges that he gambled away significant amounts from hisincome and that he did notpay his tax when it fell due, despite his havingreceived the income to which that tax was referable. Thehusbands contribution, on the evidence before me, is that of hisearnings, to the extent that his contribution is not reducedby the allegationof waste. Inconsidering whether there is likely to be an adjustment pursuant to s 75(2) ofthe Act, it is agreed between the parties that the husband has not paid childsupport since 12 February 2014. Whether,at the time of the final hearing, the husband will be in receipt of income,remains to be seen and will probably depend uponthe attitude taken by the ATOin relation to his outstanding tax debts. Itis the husbands case that, in the event that he becomes bankrupt, he willno longer be eligible to continue in his positionat the Company. However, thereis no evidence about the attitude of the ATO which may prefer to have thehusband working in his currentemployment and paying off his tax liability.There is nothing to be gained for the ATO by the husbands becomingbankrupt. Itcould not safely be assumed that there would be any adjustment, in finalproceedings, for s 75(2) factors. Inthe event that the Court made an order, as sought by the husband, for the saleof the home and the application of the entire netproceeds of sale to thehusbands tax debt, then the wifes application for propertysettlement would be rendered nugatoryas there would be no assets left availablefor distribution. Inthose circumstances it cannot be just and equitable to make an interim order asthe husband seeks and the husbands applicationfor interim propertysettlement will be dismissed. THE INVOLVEMENT OF THE COMPANY IN THE PROCEEDINGS TheCompany is the third respondent in the substantive proceedings. Inthe interim proceedings before me, the only involvement of the Company was torespond to an order sought, in the nature of a garnishee,to enforce thehusbands obligations to pay spousal maintenance and the mortgage paymentson the home pursuant to the ordersof Justice Ryan on14 June 2012. Counselfor the Company appeared for the purpose of proposing a form of order to whichthe Company would consent in the event thatthe Court found that the Companyshould pay money directly to the wife. The form of that Order was settledbetween Counsel and theCompany took no further part in the proceedings. Inthe substantive proceedings the wife seeks an order pursuant to s 106B of theAct to set aside certain transactions between the husband and the Company. Thosetransactions will be described in very generalterms because they are relevantto the husbands present contentions as to his income. Thehusband receives income from his involvement in the Company from two sources. Hereceives monthly drawings fromthe Company and quarterlydistributions of profit from a Trust (the Trust), which is acreature of the Company. Duringthe marriage, the Trust was directed to apply some of those distributions to thewife. She was not aware of this and the husbandhad the control of the moneydistributed to the wife. The wife incurred a tax liability as a result of thedistributions to her. Thewife instituted proceedings against the Trust in the Supreme Court of New SouthWales seeking equitable compensation for lossallegedly suffered by her arisingfrom breaches of duties owed by her as a beneficiary of the Trust. The wife wasunsuccessful inthose proceedings and an order has been made that she pay costs.Costs have been assessed at $323,498. Asa consequence of the Trusts engaging in the litigation in the SupremeCourt of New South Wales, a decision was made by theCompany to withhold incomefrom the Trust which might otherwise have been payable to the husband, or at hisdirection, and to applythat income against the costs incurred by the Companyand the Trust, of the proceedings both in the Supreme Court of New South Walesand subsequently in the Family Court of Australia. Itis the position of the Company that their entitlement to make that decisionarises from the employment agreement and that is amatter which will bedetermined ultimately at hearing. However,it is not disputed that at some time the husband ceased to receive the Trustdistributions which might otherwise have beendue to him. Thus, he asserts, hisincome was reduced. Itis as a consequence of this asserted reduction in his income that the husbandbrings an application to the Court to vary the ordersfor spousal maintenance(including the order for the payment of the mortgage on the home) made on14 June 2012. THE HUSBANDS APPLCIATION TO DISCHARGE SPOUSAL MAINTENANCE ORDERS(INCLUDING THE PAYMENT OF THE MORTGAGE) Theorders which the husband seeks to vary are the order for payment of spousalmaintenance in the sum of $8,000 per month, the orderfor the payment ofmortgage payments in respect of the home and the order requiring him to pay tothe wife 35 per cent of the grossamount paid to him in relation to profit shareand performance bonuses from his employer (the payments from the Trust referredtoabove). Inrelation to the issue of profit share and performance bonuses, since the husbandis not currently receiving any sums from the Trustwhich fall within thatcategory, and is not likely to do so before the final hearing of this matter, itis not necessary to considerthat application. Thecriteria for the variation of orders for spousal maintenance is set out in s 83of the Act which is reproduced below: FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 - SECT 83 Modification of spousal maintenance orders (1) If there is in force an order (whether made before or after thecommencement of this Act) with respect to the maintenance ofa party to amarriage: (a) made by the court; or (b) made by another court and registered in the first-mentioned court inaccordance with the applicable Rules of Court; the court may, subject to section 111AA: (c) discharge the order if there is any just cause for so doing; (d) suspend its operation wholly or in part and either until further order oruntil a fixed time or the happening of some futureevent; (e) revive wholly or in part an order suspended under paragraph (d); or (f) subject to subsection (2), vary the order so as to increase or decrease anyamount ordered to be paid or in any other manner. (1A) The court's jurisdiction under subsection (1) may be exercised: (a) in any case--in proceedings with respect to the maintenance of a party tothe marriage; or (b) if there is a bankrupt party to the marriage--on the application of thebankruptcy trustee; or (c) if a party to the marriage is a debtor subject to a personal insolvencyagreement--on the application of the trustee of theagreement. (2) The court shall not make an order increasing or decreasing an amountordered to be paid by an order unless it is satisfied: (a) that, since the order was made or last varied: (i) the circumstances of a person for whose benefit the order was made have sochanged (including the person entering into a stableand continuing de factorelationship); (ii) the circumstances of the person liable to make payments under the orderhave so changed; or (iii) in the case of an order that operates in favour of, or is binding on, alegal personal representative--the circumstances ofthe estate are such; as to justify its so doing; (b) that, since the order was made, or last varied, the cost of living haschanged to such an extent as to justify its so doing; (ba) in a case where the order was made by consent--that the amount ordered tobe paid is not proper or adequate; (c) that material facts were withheld from the court that made the order orfrom a court that varied the order or material evidencepreviously given beforesuch a court was false. (3) Subsection (2) does not prevent the court from making an order varying anorder made before the date of commencement of thisAct if the first-mentionedorder is made for the purpose of giving effect to this Part. (4) In satisfying itself for the purposes of paragraph (2)(b), the court shallhave regard to any changes that have occurred inthe Consumer Price Indexpublished by the Australian Statistician. (5) The court shall not, in considering the variation of an order, have regardto a change in the cost of living unless at least12 months have elapsed sincethe order was made or was last varied having regard to a change in the cost ofliving. (5A) In satisfying itself for the purposes of paragraph (2)(ba), the courtshall have regard to any payments, and any transfer orsettlement of property,previously made by a party to the marriage, or by the bankruptcy trustee of aparty to the marriage, to: (a) the other party; or (b) any other person for the benefit of the other party. (6) An order decreasing the amount of a periodic sum payable under an order ordischarging an order may be expressed to be retrospectiveto such date as thecourt considers appropriate. (6A) Where, as provided by subsection (6), an order decreasing the amount of aperiodic sum payable under an order is expressedto be retrospective to aspecified date, any moneys paid under the second-mentioned order since thespecified date, being moneysthat would not have been required to be paid underthe second-mentioned order as varied by the first-mentioned order, may berecoveredin a court having jurisdiction under this Act. (6B) Where, as provided by subsection (6), an order discharging an order isexpressed to be retrospective to a specified date, anymoneys paid under thesecond-mentioned order since the specified date may be recovered in a courthaving jurisdiction under thisAct. (7) For the purposes of this section, the court shall have regard to theprovisions of sections 72 and 75. (8) The discharge of an order does not affect the recovery of arrears due underthe order at the time as at which the dischargetakes effect. Thehusband relied upon ss 83(2)(a)(i) and (ii). Inthe reasons for judgment dated 14 June 2012, Ryan J addressed the issue of thehusbands income at paragraphs 38 40, and ultimately concluded, atparagraph 40 of the judgment: The husbands average weekly income figure referred to above does not sitcomfortably with his bank records and 2011 taxationreturn, to which greaterweight is attached. His 2011 taxation return shows [Company C] income of$609,000.00. Via a services trust,the husband directed a further 15 per centof his income to the wife; albeit this was not received by her. The effect ofthis isthat the husbands total remuneration package from [Company C] forthe preceding year constitutes the 85 per cent declaredin his taxation return,plus 15 per cent which he directed to the wife. When the husbandsevidence that this year his performanceand profit bonuses are likely to belower (but not significantly) is taken into account, it is likely that his totalaverage weeklyincome is at least about $3,000.00 per week more than containedin his Financial Statement. As to the wifes submission (asoutlined inher counsels aide memoir) that his income is even higher, thiscalculation erroneously mixed financial and calendaryears and thus produced anunsafe result. Because of the unsatisfactory manner in which the husbandpresented evidence in relationto his income it is no surprise that thisoccurred. If$609,000 represents 85 per cent of the husbands income in the 2011 taxyear, as found by Ryan J, then his total income forthe financial year ended30 June 2011 was approximately $716,500. Inevidence, before me, was a document prepared by the Company under cover of aletter dated 30 September 2014. That document disclosesthat the husbandsannualised allocation of income from all sources for the years 2011, 2012 and2013 was as follows: 2011 722,370 2012 728,544 2013 671,440 However,while the Company continued to attribute profit share distributions to thehusband, the money was not actually paid to himbut retained against the costsincurred by the Company in the litigation. Itis difficult to determine when the husband stopped receiving the distributionsfrom the Trust. Byletter dated 2 May 2013, a letter was sent by the solicitors for the Company tothe solicitors for the husband advising: ...(the [Company]) will give consideration at the end of May 2013 as to whether[company] payments to (the husband) should cease,so that amounts which mayotherwise be paid to (the husband) may be applied to setting off the expensesthat have been incurred by(the [Company]) in connection with theseproceedings. On15 August 2013, a further letter was sent advising: We are instructed that, pursuant to the terms of the ([employment]) Agreement,(the [Company]) has determined to cease making paymentsto (the husband) in theform of balance of profit payments for the financial year ending 30 June 2013.These payments will also beapplied to meeting the legal costs being incurred by(the [Company]) in connection with the proceedings. We are instructed that thelegal costs incurred to date exceed any balance of profits payments which wouldotherwise have been made to (the husband). We areinstructed that these paymentswill be retained and applied to legal costs in two tranches (likely to occur inNovember 2013 andJanuary 2014), and that an early part payment of balance ofprofits was already retained and applied to legal costs on 2 August2013. Atparagraph 19 of his affidavit sworn 18 December 2013, the husband states that inthe year ended 30 June 2013 he actually received$536,046. That sum is about$180,500 less than the amount which Ryan J found to be the husbandsincome in June 2012. Accordingto documents tendered by the Company, in the 2014 tax year, as a consequence ofthe Trusts retaining the husbandsprofit share, his income will be$474,842. Inmy view, the reduction in income, since the Orders of June 2012, of some$180,500 in the financial year ended 30 June 2013 andsome $250,000 in thefinancial year ended 30 June 2014, is sufficient to enliven theprovisions of s 83 of the Act. Accordingly,the Orders for spousal maintenance and the payment of the mortgage on the homewill be varied from 1 July 2013. Thehusband asks the Court to discharge the Orders of Ryan J in relation to spousalmaintenance and the payment of mortgage as atthe date to which they standpaid. Inrelation to the Order for the payment of the mortgage, the instalments at thedate of the Order were $6,516 per month. On18 June 2012, the Banks interest rate was reduced to 6.1 per cent. Theinterest charge, as shown on the mortgage statement,was reduced from $5,078 to$4,744. On29 June 2012, the solicitors for the husband wrote to the solicitors for thewife asking what the minimum monthly repayment requiredby the Bank was. Thewifes solicitors gave the figure of $6,516 in reply. Afurther letter was written by the husbands solicitors, to the effect thatthe Bank had confirmed that the amount requiredwas $5,882 per month. Thehusband advised that he would pay that sum and he did so until October2012. On10 October 2012 the wifes solicitors wrote to the husbandssolicitors enclosing a letter from the Bank confirmingthat the RequiredMonthly Repayment Amount (RMRA) is $6,516. On11 October 2012 the husbands solicitor wrote to the wifessolicitor, pointing out that interest rates had gone downand the minimummonthly repayment had presumably been reduced. The wife was asked to contact theBank and arrange for the RMRA tobe the reduced amount. On12 October 2012 there was a further reduction in the interest charged to$4,698. FromNovember 2012, the husband paid $5,722 against the mortgage payments. On10 December 2012 the interest charged was reduced to $4,522. FromJanuary 2013 the husband paid $5,625 against the mortgage payments. Therewere slight fluctuations in the interest charged in 2013. FromAugust 2013, the husband paid $5,145 against the mortgage payments until hislast payment in December 2013. Inthose circumstances, and having regard to the fact that the husbandsincome diminished from 1 July 2013, it is appropriateto discharge the Order forthe payment of the mortgage as at the day after the last payment was made,13 December 2013. Inrelation to the provision of maintenance for the wife, the husband has notsatisfied the Court that the Order should be dischargedbut it is accepted thatthe Order should be varied. The amount by which the Order will be varied willhave regard to the fact thatthe husband will not now be paying the monthlymortgage payments. Those payments will be the wifes responsibility. ISSUES Thehusband submits that he has no ability to pay spousal maintenance. Thewife challenges the husbands claimed expenses. Thehusband makes a limited challenge to the wifes claimed reasonable livingexpenses. Thehusband asserts that the wife is either earning income or is capable of earningincome from a company known as A Pty Limited.The wife says she has noincome. Inthe event that an order is made for spousal maintenance, should the order directthe Company to pay directly to the wife? Shouldthe order include an amount to be applied to arrears? THE HUSBANDS CAPACITY TO PAY Thedocuments produced by the Company indicate that the income of the husband in thefinancial year ended 30 June 2014 (noting thatno figures are available for thecurrent financial year) is $474,842 or $9,132 per week. Thehusband has not filed a current Financial Statement and relies on a FinancialStatement sworn 18 December 2013. He told the Courtthat his expenses remainedthe same. That is patently not true. Heasserts that he pays mortgage payments of $1,251 per week (on the home) andspousal maintenance and child support totalling $2,885per week. It isabundantly clear that the husband was not paying the spousal maintenance, childsupport or mortgage payments as atthe date when the document was executed orthereafter. Thehusband has a liability to pay child support in accordance with the currentassessment and it is conceded by the wife that thecurrent assessment of$2,011.25 per month or $464.13 per week could be collected by the Child SupportAgency. There is no applicationto vary child support. The husband asserts thathe has paid more in child support than he was liable to pay. That is a matter hecan take up with the Child Support Agency. For the purpose of these proceedings,the husbands child support liability is $464per week. Theliabilities claimed by the husband are disputed by the wife. No evidence hasbeen provided to support the claimed liabilities.It is necessary to considerthem individually. Tax Thehusband claims that he pays $5,921 per week in tax. In his affidavit sworn 18December 2013, the husband says, in relation tothe claim by theATO: I have no defence to the claim and I cannot negotiate a payment regime given mycurrent circumstances. Inhis affidavit sworn 25 September 2014, the husband says that he has haddiscussions with the ATO and that it is clear, in his view,that the ATOrequires a substantial amount to be offset from the sale of the home. That is acurious position having regard to thefact that the husband does not own thehome. Thereis no evidence that the husband is making any payments to the ATO to offset hisdebt. Accordingly, I do not propose, for thepurpose of determining his abilityto pay spousal maintenance, to take tax into account as a weekly amount, otherthan to leave untouchedan amount that would be available for the payment of taxif the husband chose to make that payment. Whetherthe husband chooses to make payments to the ATO to reduce his debt is a matterthat will, no doubt, be considered in the finalhearing of the proceedings whenthe trial judge determines how the liability for outstanding tax will beallocated between the parties. Rent Thehusband currently pays rent of $1,700 per week for the home at Suburb O in whichhe lives with his current wife, Ms Q. In hisaffidavit sworn 25 September2014, he says that the cost of housing is necessary to ensure there is anequivalent and appropriatehome for the children. I assume that byequivalent he means a home equivalent to that in which thechildrenlive with the wife which he wishes to sell to pay his tax. Thereis no evidence to support the husbands contention that it is necessaryfor the him to pay $1,700 for accommodation whichis suitable for himself, Ms Qand the children who spend four nights each fortnight and alternate Wednesdayevenings, and half schoolholidays, with him. Thereis no evidence of the financial circumstances of Ms Q such that the Court can besatisfied that it is reasonable that he beresponsible for the whole of the rentwithout contribution from her. Inhis Financial Statement the husband attributes an estimated income of $346 perweek to Ms Q. In his affidavit sworn 18 December2013, the husband says that MsQ undertakes contracting work sufficient to pay the mortgage on a unitshe owns and to makethe repayments in respect of her car. The nature ofher employment is not stated. The husband says that he contributes $591per weekto the general living expenses of Ms Q. Thewife says that Ms Q purchased a unit in February 2011 for $430,000 which iscurrently rented for $1,710 per month. No documentssupport that contention.However, the husband has the responsibility to bring evidence of Ms Qsfinancial position, includingher assets and liabilities and he has not done so. Thereis no evidence about Ms Qs ability to contribute to her support from therental income from her unit. Forthe purpose of calculating the husbands available income I propose toallow rental costs of $1,000 as reasonable. Credit cards Thehusband has entered into payment arrangements with two creditors and pays $335per week in accordance with those arrangements.That expense will beallowed. Part N expenses Themost significant expense claimed by the husband is legal fees of $5,123 perweek. He represents himself. There is no evidencethat he is currently payinglegal fees. In so far as this claim refers to the profit share withheld by theTrust to pay the legalfees incurred by the Company, that income has alreadybeen disregarded and the expense cannot be included here. Thehusband claims to pay $814 per week for the expenses of the children in the daysthey live with him in circumstances where hepays no child support. The husbandclaims weekly Part N expenses (excluding legal fees) of $2,532. Thehusband claims that he pays $591 per week for the support of Ms Q (not includingrent). She has an income of $346. His obligationto support Ms Q does nottake precedence over his obligation to support the wife and the children. I donot propose to take her supportinto account except to note that the amountwhich will be available to the husband as a result of the Orders proposed issufficientto provide a reasonable level of support forMs Q. Fixed expenses Iwill allow, for the purpose of this application, the husbands fixedexpenses to be as follows: Rent $1,000 Child Support $ 464 Instalment payments to creditors $ 335 Total $1,799 Thatleaves the husband with $7,333 per week as his disposable income. I considerthat it would be reasonable to allow one third ofthis amount ($2,444) for thesupport of the husband and Ms Q (and the children when they are with him), onethird for spousal maintenanceand to leave the remaining third available to theATO if the husband so chooses. THE WIFES REASONABLE NEEDS Withthe exception of a claim for child care expenses, there was no challenge to thewifes expenses. She claims mortgage payments,rates and medical insurancetotalling $1,844 per week. Although the children occupy the home and the medicalinsurance covers theirmedical expenses, it is reasonable to attribute theseexpenses to the wife because she pays them. Thewife estimates the childrens proper expenses to be $4,007 per week andincludes in this assessment the sum of $1,128 whichshe attributes to thechildrens share of the mortgage repayments. She also includes $300 perweek for child minding. Thereis no application in relation to child support andthe wifes claimed expenses in relation to the children are not to betakeninto account here. However I am satisfied that the amount of child supportthat should be paid by the husband does not cover thechildrens expensesand for that reason I allow the whole of the housing costs as an expense of thewife. Thewife deposes to having borrowed from her mother to meet hers and thechildrens expenses. Thewifes Part N expenses for herself, excluding the costs of housing, are$813. That figure is reasonable, particularly whenthe husband estimates his ownPart N expenses, for himself alone, excluding legal costs, at $1,127. Thewife has established a need for spousal maintenance of $2,657 perweek. A PTY LTD APty Ltd was incorporated in 2002. The shareholders are the husband as to tenshares, Mr S as to ten shares and the wifesmother as to ten shares. Thewife and Mr S are Directors. Thehusband in his affidavit sworn 18 December 2013 says that, during the marriage,the wife did not receive a salary from A Pty Ltdbut that in 2009 A Pty Ltdpurchased a car for the wifes use. Thehusband annexed to his affidavit bank statements showing money received by thewife from A Pty Ltd between 20 March 2009 and 8September 2011 totalling$117,500. Thewifes evidence is that she has not received any money from A Pty Ltdsince the parties separated in November 2011. Thehusband disputes thewifes evidence and complains that she has failed to make properdisclosure in relation to A Pty Ltd.However, the husband conceded that theFinancial Statement of A Pty Ltd for the three years ended 30 June 2013 and thebank statementsof A Pty Ltd for the same period had been produced on subpoenaand were available for inspection. No documents from the FinancialStatements orbank statements produced by A Pty Ltd were tendered by the husband in support ofhis assertion that the wife earnedincome from A Pty Ltd. Thehusband tendered a document from material produced on subpoena which was arecord of meetings attended by the wife for A Pty Ltdbetween 4 July 2012 and 26February 2014. In that period of about 22 months, the wife attended 35meetings. Ifthere were documents produced by A Pty Ltd which substantiated thehusbands assertion that A Pty Ltd is a source of currentincome for thewife, then it was incumbent upon him to tender those documents. Thereis no evidence before me to rebut the wifes evidence that she receives noincome from A Pty Ltd. AccordinglyI propose to order that the husband pay spousal maintenance in the sum of $2,657per week. TheOrders made 14 June 2012 required the husband to pay $8,000 per month spousalmaintenance to the wife and, in addition, to paythe mortgage payments then of$6,516. The effect of these Orders is to reduce the husbands totalobligation for spousal maintenanceby some $4,000 permonth. HOW SHOULD SPOUSAL MAINTENANCE BE PAID? Thehusbands failure to pay both spousal maintenance and child support incircumstances where he has had a clear ability topay at least some portion ofthose liabilities suggests that he cannot be relied upon to make those paymentsvoluntarily into thefuture. In2014, the husband has had a gross income of $9,132 per week. He does not paytax. What he has done with the money is unclear andunexplained by him. Inthe two financial years from 1 July 2012 to 30 June 2014 the husband hasreceived over a million dollars. Again, what the husbandhas done with thatmoney will no doubt be the subject of enquiry in the final hearing but the lackof explanation in his case aboutthe disposition of those funds is sufficientfor there to be a requirement that the spousal maintenance is paid before thehusbandhas control of the funds. Anorder will be made for the payment of the spousal maintenance by the Company inthe terms upon which the Company has agreed. TheseOrders make no provision for either the quantification or the enforcement ofpayment of arrears. That issue will await the finalhearing. SINGLE EXPERTS Thehusband and the wife have agreed to Orders for the appointment of a singleexpert to value the interest of the husband in theCompany and the shares in APty Ltd. Theyhave also agreed on the appointment of a single expert to give evidence aboutthe wifes reasonable remuneration. ThoseOrders will be made. I certify that the preceding one hundred and twenty-nine(129) paragraphs are a true copy of the reasons for judgment of the HonourableJustice Rees delivered on 20 October 2014. Associate: Date: 20 October 2014 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/885.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       