FAMILY LAW  CHILDREN Final Orders  Consent Orders  where proposed consentorders are silent as to parentalresponsibility  whether presumption ofequal shared parental responsibility must apply  best interests of thechildren where Court declines to make orders in terms of the proposedMinutes of Order Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) ss 61C, 61D,61DA, 64B B & B; Family Law Reform 1995(1997) FLC 92-755 Goode & Goode (2006) FLC 93-286 Marvel& Marvel [2010] FamCAFC 101; (2010) 43 Fam LR 348 Newlands & Newlands [2007] FamCA 168; (2007)37 Fam LR 103 Pavli & Beffa [2013] FamCA 144 APPLICANT: Mr Padnall RESPONDENT: Ms Padnall INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: Legal Services Commission FILENUMBER: ADC 1244 of 2012 DATE DELIVERED: 21 October 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Adelaide PLACE HEARD: Adelaide JUDGMENT OF: Berman J HEARING DATE: 17 October 2014 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: Mr Jordan SOLICITOR FOR THE APPLICANT: Barnes Brinsley Shaw Lawyers COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENT: Mr McGinn SOLICITOR FOR THE RESPONDENT: David Burrell and Co COUNSELFOR THE INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: MsLindsay SOLICITOR FOR THE INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: Mr Winter, Legal Services Commission ORDERS (1) Theoral application for consent orders made on 17 October 2014 bedismissed. IT IS NOTED that publication of this judgment by this Court underthe pseudonym Padnall & Padnall (No. 2) has been approved by theChief Justice pursuant to s 121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act 1975(Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT ADELAIDE FILE NUMBER:ADC 1244 of 2012 Mr Padnall Applicant And Ms Padnall Respondent REASONS FOR JUDGMENT INTRODUCTION ByAmended Initiating Application filed 25 July 2014, Mr Padnall (thefather) seeks parenting orders in relation toA born in 2001, B born in2004 and C born in 2010 (the children). They currently reside withthe mother. MsPadnall (the mother) seeks orders as set out in her Response tothe Initiating Application filed 11 May 2012. Theproceedings involve parenting issues and property settlement and division. Theproceedings are listed for trial as a primaryhearing commencing 1 December2014. Pursuantto orders made 12 September 2014, paragraph 1 of the fathers Applicationin a Case filed 7 February 2014 seeking leaveto adduce separate adversarialevidence was listed for hearing on 17 October 2014. Onthat date the parties and the Independent Childrens Lawyer(ICL) were represented by counsel. I was advisedthat agreementhad been reached in relation to the outstanding parenting issues and a Minute ofOrder was tendered and on the jointapplication of the parties and the ICL, Iwas asked to make orders by consent in terms of the Minute of Order asprovided. Iwas not prepared to do so at the time, preferring to give the matter somefurther thought and deliver reasons for judgment. ORDERS SOUGHT Inthe Amended Initiating Application the father sought an order that there beequal shared parental responsibility in respect ofthe children, that they livewith the mother but that they spend time with him noting that the orders soughtbrought to account asignificant difference in terms of the ongoing relationshipthat he would have with C as distinct from A and B. Forher part, the mother sought that she have the sole parental responsibility forthe children for their long term care, welfareand development, but also theirday to day care, welfare and development. The orders sought by the mother inrespect of the timethat the children should spend with their father wassignificantly different to the orders that he sought. PROPOSED ORDERS Theproposed Consent Order is divided effectively into two parts namely, the orderssought as to parental responsibility and thenthe living arrangements togetherwith specific issue orders. Iwas advised that the parties had negotiated at length and taking into accountthat they were each represented by experienced solicitorsand counsel, I have nodifficulty in determining that the proposed orders in respect of the livingarrangements and the specificissues for the children are in their bestinterests. Thefocus of concern relates to the manner in which the parties have sought to dealwith parental responsibility. Paragraph1 of the proposed orders provides as follows:- (1) Save asspecifically otherwise provided herein, each parent shall be responsible formaking decisions concerning the day to daycare of the children [A] born.../2001 ([A]), [B] born on the .../2004 ([B]); and[C] born on the .../2010([C]) (hereinafter collectively referredto as the children) when the children are living withthem. Theparties have specified the manner in which they will exercise their parentalresponsibility in respect of the day to day careof the children. Theorders are silent as to parental responsibility in respect of major or long termissues. Itmust be highlighted that whilst the benefit to the children of the partiesresolving their differences cannot be understated, itis also self-evident thatthis is a matter marred by a high level of conflict in respect of the parentingarrangements for the children. Inconsidering any order that determines the ongoing arrangements for the children,I am obliged to consider the objects and principlesunderlying Part VII of theFamily Law Act 1975 (Cth) (the Act) as set out in s 60B. The objects of Part VII is to ensure that in respect of any order made, the bestinterests of the children are met. A determination of what constitutesthe bestinterests of the children is to be considered by reference to the provisions ofs 60CC. Iconsidered it was appropriate therefore to enquire of the parties whether thelack of any reference to how the parties would managethe major and long termissues was deliberate or an omission. All counsel agreed that it was deliberateand it was the expectationand understanding of the parties that each partywould have parental responsibility subject to s 61C and that this responsibilitywould be exercised independently or jointly. Counselfor the mother put to me that the authority for such a proposition could befound in the decision of the Full Court in Goode & Goode (2006) FLC93-286. THE LEGAL POSITION TheFull Court in Goode & Goode (supra) considered the difference, ifany, between parental responsibility and equal shared parentalresponsibility. Section61B defines parental responsibility as follows:- In this part,parental responsibility, in relation to a child, means all the duties,powers, responsibilities and authority which, by law, parents have in relationtochildren. Theeffect is explained in respect of s 61C and s 61D of the Act. Section61C (1) provides:- Each of the parents of a child who is noteighteen has parental responsibility for the child. Thereare notes to the section as follows:- Note 1:- This section states the legal position that prevails in relation to parentalresponsibility to the extent which it is not displacedby a parenting order madeby the Court. See subsection (3) of this section and subsection 61D (2) for theeffect of a parenting order. Note 2:- This section does not establish a presumption to be applied by the Court whenmaking a parenting order. See subsection 61DA for the presumption that theCourt does apply when making a parenting order. Section61D provides:- (1) A parentingorder confers responsibility for a child on a person, but only to the extent towhich the order confers on the personduties, powers, responsibilities orauthority in relation to the child; (2) A parentingorder in relation to a child does not take away or diminish any aspect of theparental responsibility of any personfor the child except to the extent (ifany):- (a) Expresslyprovided for in the order; or (b) Necessaryto give effect to the order. TheFull Court, referring to parenting responsibility pursuant to s 61C held inGoode & Goode at [37] that:- Where no contrary order hasbeen made, parents may exercise this responsibility independently or jointly. This would be so whetherthe parties were married, living together, never livedtogether or separated as long as there were no contrary orders in force. Thiswould appear to be consistent with the approach adopted by the Full Court priorto the 2006 amendments, see B & B; Family Law Reform Act 1995(1997) FLC 92-755 paragraph 9.29:- In the absence of a specificissues order, we think it unlikely that the parliament intended that separatedparents could only exerciseall or any of their powers or discharge all or anyof their parenting responsibilities jointly in relation to all matters. Thisisnever the case when parents are living together in relation to day to daymatters, and the impracticability of such a requirementwhen they are livingseparately only has to be stated to be appreciated. InPavli & Beffa [2013] FamCA 144 Watts J in referring to s 61C noted at[18] that:- When that type of parental responsibility is exercised,it need not be described as shared as decisions about long termissues can be made either jointly or independently. TheFull Court in Goode & Goode highlighted an important distinction tobe drawn between s 61C and an order for shared parental responsibility at[39]:- We therefore consider it clear that there is a differencebetween parental responsibility which exists as a result of section 61Cand anorder for shared parental responsibility, which has the effect set out insection 65DAC. In the former, the parties may stillbe together or may beseparated. There will be no Court order in effect and the parties will exercisetheir responsibility eitherindependently or jointly. Once the Court has madean order allocating parental responsibility between two or more people,includingan order for equal shared parental responsibility, the major decisionsfor the long term care and welfare of the children must bemade jointly, unlessthe Court otherwise provides. TheFull Court in Newlands & Newlands [2007] FamCA 168; (2007) 37 Fam LR 103 were againrequired to consider the distinction to be drawn between parental responsibilityand equal share parental responsibility. In that case the trial judge had madean order for joint parental responsibility save and exceptthe mother would have sole parental responsibility in respect of thechilds education. There is noreference to joint parentalresponsibility in the Act and the Full Court were unable to discernwhether the trial judge sought to make orders for equal shared parentalresponsibility. At [91] the Court considered an alternative approach that couldhave been adopted by the trial judge namely, forthe mother to be given soleresponsibility in relation to schooling and: for the orders to be silent as to the remaining aspects of parentalresponsibility in which case section 61C and section 61D wouldhave effect andthe remaining aspects of parental responsibility would be exercised by bothparents either jointly or independently. Accordingly,the decisions of Goode & Goode, Newlands & Newlands andPavli & Beffa all suggest that parental responsibility conferred on aparent by virtue of s 61C of the Act may be exercised jointly or independentlyproviding there is no contrary order in force. However, in Marvel &Marvel [2010] FamCAFC 101; (2010) 43 Fam LR 348 the Full Court considered whether the operationof s 61DA in instances where the presumption had not been rebutted, woulddisplacethe operation of s 61C and require a Court to consider the presumptionof equal shared parental responsibility and therefore theprovisions in s65DAA:- [94] Section 61C, as explained in Goode, provides that eachof the parents of a child has parental responsibility for a child. Thatresponsibility exists whether the parties are in an intact family, separated, orremarried. The section has effect subject to anyorder of the Court. That is,one or more aspects of parental responsibility may be changed by a Courtorder. [95] The logical corollary of the interaction between Section 61C and Section61DA is once a parenting order of any description ismade or to be made, thepresumption, if there is no finding of risk of abuse or family violence or notrebutted as not in the childsbest interests, applies. That presumptionis that the parties then have equal shared parental responsibility not parentalresponsibility. We pause here to note that authority prior to the amending Actestablished that parental responsibility could be exercised jointlyorseverally; see B & B; Family Law Reform 1995 (1997) FLC92-755. If the presumption does apply, but is not reflected in an order forequal shared parental responsibility doesit displace the operation of Section61C? Ultimatelythe Full Court declined to determine the issue as their Honours had not had thebenefit of extensive argument on the topic,but noted helpfully at[104]:- It seems to us, as presently advised that the implication ofthe legislation, having regard to the provisions of Section 61C, 61D,61DA, 65D(1) and 65DAA is that if the presumption applies, an order for equal sharedparental responsibility will generally be madethus displacing Section 61C andtriggering considerations of the provisions of Section 61DAA. Iconsider that the parties seek orders from the Court that clearly constitute aparenting order as defined in s 64B of the Act:- Section 64B (1) A parenting order is:- (a) An order under this Part (including an order until further order) dealingwith a matter mentioned in Subsection (2); or (b) An order under this Part discharging, varying, suspending or reviving anorder, or part of an order, described in paragraph (a). Thereappears to be no controversy that the proposed orders deal extensively with thematters set out in s 64B (2). Iconsider therefore that in the parties seeking that the Court make a parentingorder in relation to the children, s. 61DA requiresthat I must apply apresumption that it is in the best interests of the child for the childsparents to have equal sharedparental responsibility for the child. Clearlythe parties seek orders by consent following negotiated settlement and theassistance of experienced legal advisors. Thereare no allegations of familyviolence or other circumstances which would see that the presumption is rebuttedand accordingly, Iconsider that the presumption must apply and in the absenceof express provision to the contrary, the parties have equal shared parentalresponsibility and therefore requires the parties to confer as to majordecisions for the long term care and welfare of the children.Those decisionsmust be made jointly. CONCLUSION Theexpressed understanding of the parties is that if the orders as currentlydrafted are made, the parental responsibility as itrelates to major decisionscan be exercised jointly or independently. Ido not consider that the orders as currently drafted give effect to thatexpectation. Accordingly,I decline to make orders in terms of the Minute of Order pending furthersubmissions. I certify that the preceding thirty eight (38)paragraphs are a true copy of the reasons for judgment of the Honourable JusticeBermandelivered on 21 October 2014. Associate: Date: 21 October 2014 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/889.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  