FAMILY LAW  INTERIMORDERS  CHILDREN  PARENTING  who child lives with. APPLICANT: Mr Bailee RESPONDENT: Ms McKayla INDEPENDENTCHILDRENS LAWYER: Ms Godschalk FILENUMBER: CAC 188 of 2012 DATE DELIVERED: 23 January 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Canberra PLACE HEARD: Canberra JUDGMENT OF: Faulks DCJ HEARING DATE: 23 January 2014 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: Ms Tonkin SOLICITOR FOR THE APPLICANT: Strong Law Pty Ltd COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENT: Ms Burgess SOLICITOR FOR THE RESPONDENT: Legal Aid ACT ORDERS (1) Thismatter be set down for hearing on a date to be notified to the parties withinThis matter be set down for hearing on a dateto be notified to the partieswithin the next two months for four days. I note that this may not be untilJune 2014 although ifan opportunity exists for it to be dealt with earlier itshould be dealt with earlier. (2) Until further order, the children B and C, born ... 2008, will live withtheir mother. (3) Their mother will have sole parental responsibility for the children. (4) The children will spend time with their father in the presence of theirpaternal grandparents or at least one of their paternalgrandparents (suchgrandparent to have undertaken and to complete training in dealing withBs diabetes) as follows: (a) From 4:15pmuntil 5:15pm or such further times as the mother might in the circumstancesarrange on two alternate Wednesdays, thefirst of such Wednesdays being 29January 2014 and the second being on 12 February 2014. (b) Thereafterthe children will spend two hours with their father on each alternate Sundaymorning from 9am until 11am (unless theparents otherwise agree). (c) Unless theparents otherwise agree the time that the father spends with the children willoccur at the D Town in New South Wales. (i) Notwithstandingthe terms of the last mentioned order, it would be sensible for the parents tomodify that arrangement in theevent that appropriate weather does not coincidewith the time the children are spending with theirfather. IT IS NOTED THAT: (5) The paternal grandmother, Ms E, has the telephone number of the mother andit is agreed that she may have contact with the motherfor the purposes ofmaking the arrangements or any variation to them as set out above. (6) The mother, at this point, objects to sending Bs insulin pump withher to the time that she spends with her father andthat this will not occur onthe first two occasions that the children spend time with their father. Thereafter, unless there isa further order of this Court, the mother will sendthe insulin pump with B for the purposes of the time that she spends with herfather. (a) In relationthereto it is noted the father agrees that any damage to the pump which couldoccur while B is with him will be hisresponsibility and he will pay for therepairs or the replacement of the pump if necessary. (b) It isfurther noted that the father and his mother have agreed that they willundertake appropriate training to deal with anyissues that may arise fromBs diabetes and will commence such training as soon as practicable with aview to their being atleast preliminarily trained prior to the longer periodsthat the children will spend with their father. (c) If there isa practical difficulty associated with this issue there be liberty on behalf ofthe Independent Childrens Lawyerto relist the issue before me at shortnotice to the other parties. IT IS FURTHER ORDEREDTHAT: (7) Each of the parties will refrain from and by order of this Court restrainedfrom initiating any discussion with the childrenabout these proceedings and ifthe mother requires any assistance in communicating with the children about thearrangements thatare to occur then she may reasonably call upon Ms F, a FamilyConsultant of this Court, to assist her in communicating effectivelywith thechildren about any matters that are causing them concern. (8) I note that prior to the hearing affidavits from each of the parties will befiled which will deal with issues principally arisingsince their last affidavitor more particularly directed to the time that the children spend with theirfather during the forthcomingperiod before the trial. These will includeaffidavits by each of the parents, an affidavit from the material grandmother,affidavitsfrom the paternal grandmother and grandfather, a psychological reportin relation to the father in accordance with terms to be agreedbetween themothers solicitors and the fathers solicitors, the writtenresponses to a series of questions to be administeredto Dr G by or on behalf ofthe Independent Childrens Lawyer and an affidavit from Mr H. (9) There be a general liberty to apply in relation to the issues before theCourt and for the sake of clarity the two hour visitswill commence on 23February 2014. IT IS NOTED that publication of thisjudgment by this Court under the pseudonym Bailee & McKayla has beenapproved by the Chief Justice pursuant to s 121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act1975 (Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT CANBERRA FILE NUMBER:CAC 188 of 2012 Mr Bailee Applicant And Ms Mckayla Respondent REASONS FOR JUDGMENT Ijust briefly indicate that in the matter of Bailee & McKayla I have beforeme matters for direction for a final hearing, andpending the final hearing,there is a request for an interim order in relation to time that the fathermight spend with the children. Inthis regard, the criterion that I am obliged to apply by the Act and which inany event is one which I believe to be appropriateis that I should make thebest interests of the children my paramount consideration. Incoming to a conclusion about what is in the best interests of the children, theAct provides some guidance about a number of mattersto be taken into account. I should indicate that I do not think that in the short term I should, on aninterim basis, make a determinationabout whether or not the presumption aboutequal shared parental responsibility should apply. In my opinion, on an interimbasisthe mother should retain sole parental responsibility in relation to thechildren. FactorsI am obliged to take into account at the moment are relatively constrained bythe circumstances and by the nature of the ordersthat I am being asked to makeon an interim basis. I am persuaded from the evidence such as I have that thereis, at least, thepotential for the children to have a meaningful relationshipwith both of their parents which includes, of course, their father. Iam satisfied also that it is necessary for me to ensure that the children areprotected from physical or psychological harm or beingexposed to abuse, neglector family violence. In circumstances where the children spend their time withtheir father, accompaniedby his parents, I believe that there is nounacceptable risk that the children could be exposed to any such physical orpsychologicalharm. Iam conscious of the fact that because of the attenuated nature of therelationship of the children with their father - to the extentthat it might bereasonably referred to as a relationship at all - the time involved mustnecessarily be limited. It is argued onbehalf of the mother, that it ispreferable that the issues that need to be determined are first determinedbefore any time is spentby the children with their father. WhileI understand the logic behind such a submission, it seems to me that it isimportant in a context where there is no immediateevidence that the childrenwould be disturbed by spending time with their father, and given the nature ofthe recommendations fromthe single expert and the support in this regard of theindependent children's lawyer, that there should be an opportunity for thechildren, in circumstances of safety for them, to have some time with theirfather prior to the trial of this matter. Thisis not to suggest the children should be subjected to some sort of experimentbut rather that there is no contrary indicationat this point that it would notbe an appropriate fulfilment of this courts obligation to look at whatmight be the most appropriatearrangements for the children at the expiration ofthe trial. That includes a consideration of the fact that their time with theirfather may be such a result, and if it is, that it would be useful to at leastexplore at this point, the parameters of that relationshipand the time thechildren might spend in taking that opportunity. Iaccept that there will be some changes for the children necessarily implicit inthis, but I am satisfied that the interference withtheir normal daily routineis minimal in the overall circumstances. Ihave taken account of the capacity of each of the parents to look after thechildren and be concerned about their welfare, and inthis regard I note thatthe father will be assisted to overcome whatever shortcomings the mother maybelieve he has in this regard,by the presence of his parents. Iam satisfied that the attitude expressed by each of the parents in this casefulfils what might be called their parental responsibilityabout the safety ofthe children. I acknowledge the mothers concerns, but say in thesecircumstances that I believe thatthese orders are, notwithstanding herreservations, consistent with her concerns. Thoseare the matters that I believe to be important under section60CC. I certify that the preceding twelve (12) paragraphs are atrue copy of the reasons for judgment of the Honourable Deputy Chief JusticeFaulks delivered on 23 January 2014. Associate: Date: 28January 2016 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/841.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   