FAMILY LAW  ORDERS Contravention  Where the husband filed a contraventionapplication in relation to parentingorders  Application dismissed Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) APPLICANT: Mr Bagheri RESPONDENT: Ms Goudarzi FILENUMBER: SYC 7646 of 2008 DATE DELIVERED: 5 September 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Sydney PLACE HEARD: Sydney JUDGMENT OF: Benjamin J HEARING DATE: 5 September 2014 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: Mr P R Cummings SOLICITOR FOR THE APPLICANT: Barkus Doolan COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENT: Ms Goudarzi SOLICITOR FOR THE RESPONDENT: ORDERS Theapplication for contraventions contained in the document filed 18 February 2014be dismissed. Eachof the parties attend a PPP Parenting Course conducted byRelationships Australia or similar course recommendedby the Director ofRelationships Australia New South Wales, such course to be undertaken andcompleted within twelve (12) monthsfrom the date of thisorder. IT IS DIRECTED Acopy of the reasons for these orders be taken out and placed on the Courtfile. IT IS CERTIFIED Pursuantto Rule 19.50 of the Family Law Rules 2004 it was reasonable to engage seniorcounsel and counsel to attend. IT IS NOTED that publication of this judgment by this Court underthe pseudonym Bagheri & Goudarzi has been approved by the ChiefJustice pursuant to s 121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT SYDNEY FILE NUMBER:SYC 7646 of 2008 Mr Bagheri Applicant And Ms Goudarzi Respondent REASONS FOR JUDGMENT Thisis an application by Mr Bagheri (the husband) asserting a numberof contraventions by his former wife Ms Goudarzi(the wife) setout in a contravention application filed in this Court on 18 February 2014. Inthat document the husbandasserts that there were, in essence, fivecontraventions. Firstly, on 4 January 2014, that the wife without reasonableexcuse refusedto allow the parties children to live with him inaccordance with the order made by consent on 23 April 2013. The secondandthird contravention allegations arise following the parties son breakinghis arm, or damaging his arm, on 27 November2013. Thehusband asserts that the wife did not keep him informed of any major medicalissue contained in order 27, made in April last year,and failed to provide himwith the detail of the medical professionals contained in order 26 of thatorder. The fourth and fifthalleged contraventions arise in respect of order32, made in April last year, about the parties keeping the other informed as todates and as to places they are staying when they are away on holidays. Thehusband asserts that the wife failed to inform him ofa holiday on the GoldCoast in early July 2013, and apparently a trip to Melbourne in September2013. Thehusband relied upon his affidavit filed 18 February 2014 together with thedocuments attached to it. He gave evidence, and wascross-examined by the wife.The wife denied the breaches, and implicitly said if there were breaches, therewas a reasonable excuseand the contraventions ought not to be established. Thewife prepared an affidavit in April 2014, although she deposes that thataffidavit was sworn before a solicitor on 3 September 2014, and thatsconfirmed by the jurat on page 3 of the affidavit. There is no issue that thewife was present in court when the orders were made. Equally,there is no issue that when the orders were made she was represented by bothsolicitors and competent counsel. There isno issue that the application wasserved personally upon her. I will deal with each of the three, the latter twobeing groupings,individually, as I am obliged to do so and I will consider theevidence as it stands. The first arises out of the circumstancesin January ofthis year, where the husband clearly anticipated he would have the children at atime when the wife clearly anticipatedthey would be going to the B TrainingCamp. Thereseems to be no issue that, but for order 8.7, the children would otherwise havebeen with the husband. It is of value to meto read 8.7 and put it on thetranscript. It says:- Notwithstanding any other Order herein, withthe Mother for a period of ten (10) days over the Summer School holidays tofacilitatethe childrens attendance at the [B Training Camp], providedthat if the [B Training Camp] falls over a period that the childrenwouldotherwise be in the Fathers care pursuant to these Orders the Mothershall facilitate the children spending make-uptime with the Father as agreedbetween the parties and the make up time shall be in one consecutive blockperiod added to (eitherat the beginning or the end) of another block period thechildren live with the Father the same year. Itis clear that the wife wrote to the husband on 3 July 2013 informing him of thecamp for 2014, and making suggestions to him asto what alternate times heshould take. It is not as clear in relation to his reply. The husband repliedon 3 July 2013 makingit clear from the email, by including 8.7, that heexpected there to be an agreement. He says that he said he would get back toher in due course, although on the reading of the email it looks like thatrelated to the September holiday. But, in any event,he made it clear that noagreement had been reached at that stage. Thereis significant animosity on the part of the wife to the husbandssolicitors, which comes out clearly in her affidavit. She has adopted aposition where she has a solicitor acting for her in the property proceedingsbut is acting for herself in relationto parenting matters. I suspect that thisputs some pressure on the solicitors for the husband in terms of how they dealwith aperson who is part represented and part not represented. But in anyevent, on 20 November 2013 the husbands solicitors wroteto the wife inrelation to the holiday proposals. Thewife sent a fairly inflammatory letter back to the solicitors, complaining,amongst other things that the husband had not engagedin the process ofmediation or resolution of the process, as was set out in the orders. She wroteto the husband directly on 13December 2013 and received a reply the same daysaying that she should speak with his solicitor and that he did not intend tonegotiatedirectly with the wife. It is the clear interpretation by the husbandthat any agreement has to be reached prior to the childrenattending the BTraining Camp. Myinterpretation of that provision is not in that form. It seems to me that 8.7makes it clear that the children attending the BTraining Camp take precedenceover other orders contained therein. The wife has an obligation to facilitatemake-up time in thefollowing year, or that year, and in this case she did doso, and furthermore even if that didnt comply there is time leftand I think it did, given the consent orders before Johnson J in April of thisyear for that make up time to havebeen put in place. Accordingly, I amnot satisfied on balance that the wife has contravened the order in relation tothe Christmas to the New Year period by taking the children to the BTraining Camp. Itmay be that the wife is difficult. It may be that the wife is at timesdiscourteous. But it is not in my view, upon reading thatprovision, anunreasonable interpretation that the consent can happen in the following January2012 in terms of that order. Accordingly,that aspect of the claim must fail. Thesecond aspect of the claim for the contravention application relates to theparties son breaking or damaging his hand inNovember 2013. Order 27provides, and I quote:- That each party shall keep the otherinformed via email of any major medical issues involving the children, includingany detailsrelating to the childrens attendance upon a medicalpractitioner and any treatment prescribed. Order29, provides:- That each party shall inform the other as soon asreasonably practicable, and in any event within twenty- four (24) hours, of anyof the following which occurs whilst the children are in their care: 29.1.1 Serious medical problem or illness suffered by the children; 29.1.2 Medication that has been prescribed for the children that needs to betaken whilst the children are in the care of the otherparty; and 29.1.3 Other significant matters relevant to the welfare of the children. Whatin fact happened on that day is that this child suffered the injury to the handor the arm. The wife took the child to C Hospitaland then on that day informedthe husband of that event. That is not contentious. She sent him an email or atext at 6.04 pm onthat day, as set out in paragraph 39 of the husbandsaffidavit. It is not in issue that later that evening the husband metwith hischildren and took them for a walk. Thewife was asked by the husband on 6 December to provide some details in relationto the medical treatment provided and she didso the following day by providingthe name of the hospital. She was unable to provide the names of the doctorsbecause the childwas taken to the emergency section. I am not satisfied onbalance that the wife has contravened those orders. I am satisfied thatshe hascomplied with the terms of the orders. If I am wrong in this respect I amsatisfied that given the information providedand given the text and theavailability of the children, it would have amounted to a reasonable excuse inany event. Accordingly,those two contraventions are likewise dismissed. Thefinal two relate to the holidays and it is clear that the wife took the childrenon holidays and it is equally clear that shedid not keep the husband informedof the precise details of where she was staying. The wife does not disputethose circumstances. She did, however, provide some details to the husband,sent him texts, photographs and other material. The wife says that on herknowledge the husband was, for the first holiday, in Iran. The husbandsevidence is that he was there but he cantrecall whether it was at thetime of the holiday or some other period around that time. Thereis also evidence that the husband has, from time to time, taken holidays andmoved children from hotel to hotel without informingthe wife. I am satisfiedthat on the evidence the wife has prima facie contravened those orders on 28September 2013 and 3 July2013. However, given the approach adopted by theparties and given the de minimis nature of those contraventions, I am satisfiedthat there is, in all of the circumstances, a reasonable excuse and also havingregard to the material that was provided to the husband. Accordingly, those twofinal contravention assertions will likewise be dismissed. MrCummings asked me to look at this in context and I have looked at thecontravention in the context that the parties have engagedin adversarialproceedings over many years. I certify that the precedingseventeen (17) paragraphs are a true copy of the reasons for judgment of theHonourable Justice Benjamindelivered on 5 September2014. Associate: Date: 5 September 2014 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/845.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       