FAMILY LAW  ORDERS CONTRAVENTION  Contravention application made by the fatheragainst the mother alleging abreach with respect to parenting orders Where the father failed to interpret the wording of the parenting orders Where the fathers application that the mother be dealt with for a breachof court orders be dismissed  Where the fatheris ordered to pay thecosts of the mother. APPLICANT: Mr Laracy RESPONDENT: Ms Laracy FILENUMBER: SYC 855 of 2011 DATE DELIVERED: 10 January 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Sydney PLACE HEARD: Sydney JUDGMENT OF: Loughnan J HEARING DATE: 10 January 2014 REPRESENTATION SOLICITORFOR THE APPLICANT: In Person SOLICITORFOR THE RESPONDENT: Ms Doumit ORDERS TheContravention Application filed on 5 November 2013 be dismissed. Thefather pay the costs of the mother of and incidental to these proceedings todayas assessed by a Taxing Officer or as agreed betweentheparties. IT IS NOTED that publication of this judgment by this Court underthe pseudonym Laracy & Laracy has been approved by the Chief Justicepursuant to s 121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT SYDNEY FILE NUMBER:SYC 855 of 2011 Mr Laracy Applicant And Ms Laracy Respondent EXTEMPORE JUDGMENT Theseare proceedings commenced by an Application filed by the father on5 November 2013. This is the first return date of the Application. It isa Contravention Application, an Application that the mother be dealt with for abreach of court orders affecting a child. Themother is present today and represented. The father is here on his ownaccount. Theparties have explained to me what the case is about. Orders were made on 28March 2013 by a judge after a defended hearing. Oneof the provisions of the orders was that the child S live with the father duringschool term from the conclusion of school Thursdayon the first Thursday of atwo week cycle to the commencement of school the following Monday, and from theconclusion of school onthe second Thursday of the two week cycle to thecommencement of school the next day. Order 3.1.1.3 says: Thealternative weekend cycle will continue from one school term to the next as ifthe school holidays did not intervene. Thefather interpreted that to mean that the alternate weekend cycle continued as ifthe school holidays did intervene. The motherhas approached it in accordancewith the wording of the orders. On the face of the documents the fathersinterpretation isincorrect. The mother is correct on the plain wording of theorders. The fathers Application that the mother be dealt withfor abreach of court orders cannot succeed and should be dismissed. Thereis an Application for costs in the sum of $2,000. I gather that is an estimate.There is no evidence before the court in relationto the costs that have beenincurred or how they are calculated. The father says that he should not paycosts because he cannotafford it. There was a property settlement order. Itmay be that they were made in terms agreed between the parties, a couple ofdaysbefore 28 March. Thefather has apparently filed an application or intends to file an applicationunder s 79A to upset those orders. That application is yet to be heard. Thefather says that he is self-employed. There is no other material in relation tohis financial circumstances and he referred tohaving a debt of $50,000 being acredit card debt. AsI have explained to him, these are the most serious of applications. Contravention applications almost invariably result in acosts order if they aresuccessful because of the breach of the court orders; and if they are notsuccessful, because so seriousa step was taken without the applicant beingpossessed of information that justified the application. Iexpressed some frustration this morning because this was a completely illogicalapplication and it is a disgrace that it has beenbrought to a superior court ofrecord. Putting aside the private cost, there is the public cost incurredapparently because thefather found it difficult to have his computer work outthe contact program under a two week cycle if the school holidays wereexcluded. Asto the relevant matters, importantly the application has been whollyunsuccessful. Thisis not an application that a respondent can ignore. Unlike any other sort ofapplication apart from money enforcement or contempt,if a contraventionapplication is served and the respondent does not come to court she could bearrested. These are among the mostserious of applications and a party shouldnot file an application of this nature without being very sure of the factsalleged. Thedispute here boils down to a difference of interpretation. On any view therewas no proper basis for a contravention application. The father is in person. We do not know the basis of the quantum of the costs claim, so the costs willneed to be as agreed oras assessed by a taxing officer. However, it isappropriate that the order be made. I certify that thepreceding thirteen (13) paragraphs are a true copy of the reasons for judgmentof the Honourable Justice Loughnandelivered on 10 January2014. Associate: Date: AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/91.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          