FAMILY LAW  PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE After hearing the case the former de facto wife died  proceedingssuspended Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) APPLICANT: Ms Fletcher RESPONDENT: Mr Jones FILENUMBER: BRC 3721 of 2011 DATE DELIVERED: 15 October 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Brisbane PLACE HEARD: Brisbane JUDGMENT OF: Stevenson J HEARING DATE: 18 August 2014; 12 September 2014 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: Mr Hackett SOLICITOR FOR THE APPLICANT: Hirst & Co COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENT: Mr Williams SOLICITOR FOR THE RESPONDENT: Barry Nilsson Lawyers ORDERS (1) Itis noted that presently there is no legal personal representative for thedeceased de facto wife and these proceedings currentlyaresuspended. IT IS NOTED that publication of this judgment by this Court underthe pseudonym Fletcher & Jones has been approved by the Chief Justicepursuant to s 121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT BRISBANE FILE NUMBER:BRC 3721 of 2011 Ms Fletcher Applicant And Mr Jones Respondent REASONS FOR JUDGMENT THE PROCEEDINGS On18 August 2014 I heard competing interim applications in this dispute as toproperty settlement between former de facto spouses. I reserved judgment, whichI was about to deliver when my Associate received correspondence from thesolicitor for the de factohusband, Mr Jones. This letter stated that the defacto wife, Ms Fletcher died on ... September 2014. Icaused the proceedings to be relisted on 12 September 2014 to ascertain theposition in relation to the estate of the late Ms Fletcher. I was informed thatshe died intestate and that her husband, Mr Cook, intends to apply for a grantof Letters of Administrationin the Supreme Court of Queensland. I directedwritten submissions in relation to the appropriate course with regard to myreservedjudgment. Ireceived written submissions from the solicitor for Mr Jones on 3 October 2014and the lawyer for the late Ms Fletcher on 13 October2014. The writtensubmissions of the solicitor for the late Ms Fletcher indicated that her widowerhas provided instructions foran application for a grant of Letters ofAdministration and for continuation of these proceedings pursuant tos 90SM(8) of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) (theAct). Section90SM(8) provides as follows: If a party to the de facto relationship dies after the breakdown of thede facto relationship, but before property settlement proceedingsarecompleted: (a) the proceedings may be continued by or against, as the case may be, thelegal personal representative of the deceased partyand the applicable Rules ofCourt may make provision in relation to the substitution of the legal personalrepresentative as a partyto the proceedings; and (b) if the court is of the opinion: (i) that it would have made an order with respect to property if the deceasedparty had not died; and (ii) that it is still appropriate to make an order with respect toproperty; the court may make such order as it considers appropriate with respect to: (iii) any of the property of the parties to the de facto relationship or eitherof them; or (iv) any of the vested bankruptcy property in relation to a bankrupt de factoparty to the de facto relationship; and (c) an order made by the court pursuant to paragraph (b) may be enforced onbehalf of, or against, as the case may be, the estateof the deceasedparty. Rule6.15 provides as follows: Death of party (1) This rule applies to a property case or an application for the enforcementof a financial obligation. (2) If a party dies, the other party or the legal personal representative mustask the court for procedural orders in relation tothe future conduct of thecase. (3) The court may order that the legal personal representative of the deceasedperson be substituted for the deceased person asa party. Note 1: The court may make other procedural orders, including that a person haspermission to intervene in the case (see rules 1.12and 6.05). Note 2: For the effect of the death of a party in certain cases, see subsections79 (1A), 79 (8), 79A (1C), 90SM (2), 90SM (8), 90SN (5), 90UM (8) and 105 (3) ofthe Act. Asyet, there is no legal personal representative for the late Ms Fletcher. Itfollows that there has been no application pursuantto r 6.15 for substitutionof a legal personal representative for the deceased de facto wife. It followsalso that there has beenno application pursuant to r 6.15 forprocedural orders in relation to the future conduct of thecase. Inthe Marriage of Strelys (1988) 12 Fam LR 437 the Full Court(Simpson, Nygh and Graham JJ) considered s 79(8) of the Act and O 14 r6(1). Section 79(8) is the equivalent provision to s 90SM(8) in relationto de jure marriages and O 14 r 6(1) was the previous embodiment of r 6.15. NyghJ held as follows in relation to s 79(8): ...Section 79(8)(a) allows the proceedings to be continued by the substitutionof the legal personal representative of the deceased. In my view, untilandunless such a person is appointed, the proceedings are, as it were,suspended... NyghJ held as follows in relation to the then Order 14 Rule6(1): The obvious implication of that provision is that it is for the court to givedirections as to the conduct of the proceedings followingdeath. This is aspecial provision dealing with a specific situation and the more generalprovisions of O 11 r 2 must, in my view,be read subject to this provision. In my view, upon the death of a party to incomplete proceedings under s 79, theproceedings are in effect suspended pending the directions of the court under 16(1) as to the future conduct of the proceedings. The purported withdrawal ofthe proceedings at a time when the proceedings could not be continued pendingthe appointment of a legalpersonal representative was ineffective to terminatethose proceedings. Itis thus the case that I am unable to take any step in these proceedings until alegal personal representative is appointed forthe late Ms Fletcher and thatperson is substituted for her pursuant to r 6.15. I decline to stay theproceedings pending thoseevents, as I consider that it is unnecessary that I doso. I certify that the preceding ten (10) paragraphs are a truecopy of the reasons for judgment of the Honourable Justice Stevenson deliveredon 15 October 2014. Associate: Date: 15 October2014 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/870.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     