FAMILY LAW  PRACTICEAND PROCEDURE  Adjournment and case management FAMILY LAW COSTS  Application for costs by the intervenor dismissed Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) APPLICANT: Mr Grattan RESPONDENT: Ms Grattan INTERVENOR: B Pty Ltd FILENUMBER: MLC 4259 of 2013 DATE DELIVERED: 3 October 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Melbourne PLACE HEARD: Melbourne JUDGMENT OF: Cronin J HEARING DATE: 29 September; 3 October 2014 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: Mr Ackman QC with Mr Werner SOLICITOR FOR THE APPLICANT: Taussig Cherrie Fildes COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENT: Mr Glick with Mr Strum SOLICITOR FOR THE RESPONDENT: Kainelaw Australian Lawyers COUNSEL FOR THE INTERVENOR: Ms Ben-Simon SOLICITOR FOR THE INTERVENOR: C Law Firm ORDERS ThatBY CONSENT there be orders in accordance with the minutes of proposedorders marked Exhibit A sealed and attached hereto AND IT ISDIRECTED that such minutes remain upon the Court file. Thatthe solicitor for the wife engross the minutes and deliver them by electronictransmission to my Associate within 7 days. Thatthe material produced under subpoena not the subject of objection is to bereleased for inspection and copying. Thatthe material in the sealed envelope produced by C Law Firm which is the subjectof objection on the grounds of privilege be madeavailable for examination bythe Honourable Justice Cronin for the purposes of determination as toprivilege. Thatthe application for costs by B Pty Ltd is dismissed. ALLAPPLICATIONS ARE ADJOURNED AND FIXED FOR FINAL HEARING before the HonourableJustice Cronin at 10.00am on 9 December 2014 as a five day matter. Theevidence in chief of all witnesses shall be given byaffidavit. TIMETABLE: By4 pm on 20 October 2014 the applicant file and serve upon all otherparties: anamended application setting out with precision the orders to be sought; allaffidavits of evidence to be relied upon; and afinancial statement. Theapplicant pay all required court fees by 4 pm on 20 October 2014 By4 pm on 10 November 2014 the respondent file and serve upon all otherparties: anamended response setting out with precision the orders to be sought; allaffidavits of evidence to be relied upon; and afinancial statement. By4 pm on 24 November 2014 the applicant file and serve any affidavit inreply. Withoutleave of the Court, any affidavit filed beyond the timetable set out in theseorders may not be relied upon. SUBPOENAE Allparties have leave to issue subpoenae for the production of documents. If aparty is represented by a legal practitioner, theregistrar shall, upon thecertification of the legal practitioner, be satisfied as torelevance. CASE MANAGEMENT Theregistrar may vary the filing timetable under these orders. Ifa party fails to comply with these orders, a party who has complied may file anapplication in a case supported by an affidavitseeking to proceed on anundefended basis. Anyrulings required on objections to evidence shall be set out in the caseoutline. By4 pm on 5 December 2014 all parties file electronically to ... a case outlinein one document setting out: aconcise set of orders to be sought; thelist of the affidavits to be read; thelist of objections to evidence requiring a ruling; theoutline of the issues in dispute; and alist of assets and liabilities. COSTS Atthe commencement of the hearing, each party shall provide the court with astatement setting out their costs incurred to that date,the source of anypayments made and what costs are expected until the completion of thehearing. ThatMs D be the first witness in the proceedings that commence on 9 December2014. Thatthe interim applications of all parties be otherwisedismissed. AND THE PARTIES SHOULD NOTE: Uponnon-compliance with the timetable under these orders or any amendments made bythe registrar, the Court may relist the case forcase management purposesrequiring the parties to justify why it should not be removed from the triallist. Affidavitsrelied upon for previous hearings cannot be relied upon as evidence in chiefwithout leave of the Court. IT IS NOTED that publicationof this judgment by this Court under the pseudonym Grattan & Grattan andAnor (No. 4) has been approved by the Chief Justice pursuant to s 121(9)(g)of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT MELBOURNE FILE NUMBER:MLC 4259 of 2013 Mr Grattan Applicant And Ms Grattan Respondent And B Pty Ltd Intervener REASONS FOR JUDGMENT Thesereasons concern two matters. The first relates to the withdrawal of caveats. The jurisdiction to order a party who had fileda caveat to remove it was not incontention. Seniorcounsel for the wife sought that the caveat remain on the basis that removing itwould be of no utility in circumstances wherethere is a hearing in a few weekstime. The fundamental and underlying principle in which the wife supports thecaveat (leavingaside any argument about there being a caveatable interest) washer view that the husband could not be trusted because of varioustransactionswhich she has asserted were in breach of court orders. It is not necessary forme to make any finding about any ofthose issues today. Seniorcounsel for the husband pointed to the existence of an order made on 14 August2014 (paragraph 3) which related to the caveatbeing removed if the husbandprovided documentations in respect of a sale. At the conclusion of the hearing,it was indicated thata valuation had been obtained only that moment and it wassubstantially less than what the parties were anticipating. In my view,havingcarefully considered the order made on 14 August 2014 which I note was drawn bythe parties, there is no basis for me to makeany other order at this stagebecause any conceivable situation is covered by those orders. Thesecond matter relates to an application for costs by B Pty Ltd. I deliveredreasons on this day indicating that I would not removeMr C and his firm ofsolicitors from acting for B Pty Ltd. I do not propose to repeat those reasonsbut as I indicated in discussion,it was a very close call. The wife lost herapplication on the basis that she had slept on her rights but it must also besaid thather application related to the husband and Mr C which problemevaporated when the husband gave an undertaking that he would not consultMr Cfor advice or give instructions in relation to the family law proceedingsbetween the husband and the wife. Section117 of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) (the Act) providesthat in proceedings under the Act each party shall bear their own costs unlessthere are circumstancesthat justify a departure from that principle. If such acircumstance can be shown, the Court must not make an order for costs unlessitis satisfied that the matters set out in s 117(2A) result in a just result forthe parties. Inmy view, this was an application that was keenly contested and was inextricablybound up with the association between the husbandand Mr C. It was also aboutactions by Mr C which caused the wife concern as to his objectivity and whetherthere was a potentialconflict with his duty to the Court and his fiduciary dutyto the wife. This was the exercise of a discretion in favour of the companyandin my view there is nothing unusual about that such as would enable me to findthat there were justifiable circumstances to makean order at all. In thosecircumstances, the application for costs by B Pty Ltd must bedismissed. I certify that the preceding Six (6) paragraphs are atrue copy of the reasons for judgment of the Honourable Justice Cronin deliveredon 3 October 2014. Associate: Date: 3 October2014 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/846.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    