FAMILY LAW  CHILDREN Interim parenting  Issues regarding capacity of each parent Certain matters tobe addressed before completion of final hearingincluding as to alcohol misuse and as to parenting capacity and skills Bestinterests of child  Child to spend increased and unsupervised timewith father on an interim basis Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) Goode & Goode [2006] FamCA 1346; (2006) FLC93-286 APPLICANT: Mr Grishin RESPONDENT: Ms Ebbs FILENUMBER: PAC 4460 of 2012 DATE DELIVERED: 7 February 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Parramatta PLACE HEARD: Parramatta JUDGMENT OF: Hannam J HEARING DATE: 5, 6 & 7 February 2014 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: Mr Schroder SOLICITOR FOR THE APPLICANT: Smythe Wozniak Solicitors COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENT: Mr Livingstone SOLICITOR FOR THE RESPONDENT: Marsdens Law Group ORDERS Pending further order (1) The parents have joint parental responsibility for T born ... January 2011(the child). (2) The child is to live with the mother, except as provided in Order 3. (3) The child is to spend time with the father as follows: (a) For aperiod of four weeks, commencing the first weekend after these Orders, eachSaturday from 2.00 pm until 2.00 pm Sunday andeach Thursday 2.00 pm until 4.00pm. (b) Thence fora period of four weeks, each Saturday from 10.00 am until 6.00 pm Sunday andeach Thursday from 2.00 pm until 4.00pm. (c) Thence fora period of four weeks, each alternate weekend from 6.00 pm Friday until 9.00 amMonday and from 2.00 pm to 6.00pmeach Wednesday. (d) Thence eachalternate week from 6.00 pm Friday until 9.00 am Tuesday and in the alternateweek from 2.00 pm until 6.00 pm Wednesdayuntil the child turns 4 years ofage. (4) The child live with the father for block holiday time as follows, (andduring such holiday time Orders as set out in order 3hereof aresuspended): (a) In 2014 forfour continuous days and nights to occur twice, the first occasion not to occurbefore June 2014 and the second notto occur before November 2014, with thefather to give one months notice to the mother of his intention toexercise such timein writing. (5) That for special occasions as set out below (and orders 3 and 4 above aresuspended during such special occasions) the fatherand mother shall spend timewith the child as follows: (a) OnFathers Day with the father from 9.00 am until 6.00 pm. (b) OnMothers Day with the mother from 9.00 am until 6.00 pm. (c) For fourhours during the childs birthday on ... January each year, until thechild commences block holiday time with eachparent pursuant to order 4 above. After such block holiday time commences the childs birthday shall liewhere it falls withwhichever parent she is living at that time. (d) FromChristmas Eve 12.00 noon until Christmas Day 12.00 noon each even numbered yearand from Christmas Day 12.00 noon until 12.00noon Boxing Day each odd numberedyear with the father. (e) FromChristmas Eve 12.00 noon until Christmas Day 12.00 noon each odd numbered yearand from Christmas Day 12.00 noon until 12.00noon Boxing Day each even numberedyear with the mother. (6) For the purposes of communications between the parties the parentsshall: (a) Keep andmaintain a communications book in which they shall record all relevant events ofparenting significance so as to allowthe other parent to be fully informed asto any requirements of the child whilst in their respective care. The parentsshall recordall communications in a respectful and informative manner. (b) Advise theother in writing of a mobile telephone number at which they can be contacted bytext message or by way of telephonecall in an emergency. The telephone numberneed not be the parents telephone number however communication by oneparent tothe other by means of the advised telephone number will be sufficientcompliance with any notice required to be given in writingto the other parentby text message or any emergency telephone call that is required to be maderegarding the child. (c) The parentsare entitled to, and shall, communicate by text message through the advisedtelephone number concerning matters relatingto equal shared parentalresponsibility. Such text messages are to be informative, concise and in apolite manner. In the eventof any disagreement being unable to be resolvedconcerning matters pertaining to a parental responsibility the parties shallattendfamily dispute resolution. (7) In the event of any emergency involving the child or hospitalisation theparents shall call the other parent on the advised telephonenumber as soon aspracticable. (8) By consent, that by way of injunction: (a) Each of theparents be and are hereby restrained from consuming alcohol from 12 hours priorto the child coming into their respectivecare or during their respective careof the child. (b) Each of theparents be and are hereby restrained from denigrating or abusing the otherparent to or in the presence of the childor allowing any other person todo. (c) Each of theparents be and are hereby restrained from using corporal punishment with respectto the child or allowing any otherperson to do so. (d) Each of theparents be and are hereby restrained from entering any abusive message in thecommunication book, or sending any abusivetext message on the advised telephonenumber. (9) To effect a changeover for the child pursuant to these Orders, unlessotherwise agreed in writing between the parties, changeovershall occur atMcDonalds, B Street, Suburb F. The father shall arrange for his daughter, Ms S,or his partner, Ms G, to attend thechangeover and effect the changeover on hisbehalf. The father shall ensure that he does not attend the actual changeover. He shallbe entitled to wait at the Suburb H Shopping complex for the changeoverto be effected. The mother shall be entitled to arrangefor an alternate personknown to the child, to effect a changeover on her behalf should she wish. (10) By consent, pursuant to section 68L of the Family Law Act 1975(Cth), interests of the child (T born ... January 2011) are to beindependently represented by a lawyer in these proceedings. (11) The Legal Aid Commission of New South Wales, ... Office, is requested tomake arrangements as soon as practicable to secureappropriate representationfor the childs interests. (12) The parties are to provide to the ... Office of the Legal Aid Commission ofNew South Wales, at ... NSW ... or DX ..., forthwithcopies of all documentsupon which the parties rely in these proceedings, together with all existingOrders and copies of any relevantreports. (13) Leave is granted to the Independent Childrens Lawyer, whenappointed, to issue such subpoena as he / she considers relevantto the issuesbefore the Court. (14) Leave is granted to the Independent Childrens Lawyer, whenappointed, to have photocopy access to documents producedon subpoena in theseproceedings. (15) The Independent Childrens Lawyer is exempt from fees pursuant toDivision 2.3 of the Family Law (Fees) Regulations 2012(Cth). (16) Leave is granted to the Independent Childrens Lawyer to relist thematter on short notice by arrangement with the Courtin chambers in appropriatecircumstances. (17) Each parent submit to a carbohydrate transferring deficient blood test(CTD) on a random basis and further that: (a) Suchtesting be requested by the Independent Childrens Lawyer not greater thanonce per month with such request to be madeby letter, email, fax or phone callto the legal representative of the mother and the father. (b) Suchtesting is to be undertaken within 24 hours of such request. (c) Each parentto provide copies of such testing results to the solicitor for the other partyand the Independent ChildrensLawyer as soon as practical. (18) Leave is granted to the Independent Childrens Lawyer to relist thematter in the event that the CTD testing shows thateither parent has consumedalcohol. (19) The mother is to undergo assessment and any treatment as may be directed inrespect of alcohol misuse as recommended by herGeneral Practitioner. (20) The mother is to undertake counselling and treatment with a psychologist inrespect of her emotional regulation and parentingstyle and factors asidentified by the Family Consultant in the family report. The mother is atliberty to provide the family reportto her General Practitioner andpsychologist. (21) The mother is to advise the Independent Childrens Lawyer of thetreatment providers in relation to alcohol misuse andcounselling as soon aspracticable after those professionals have been engaged. (22) Leave is granted to the Independent Childrens Lawyer to relist thematter before the Court if he/she has any concernsin relation to theappropriateness of such treatment providers. (23) The matter is relisted for mention on 23 January 2015 at10.00am. (24) The parties have liberty to restore on 14 daysnotice IT IS NOTED that publication of this judgmentby this Court under the pseudonym Grishin & Ebbs has been approved bythe Chief Justice pursuant to s 121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act 1975(Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT PARRMATTA FILE NUMBER:PAC 4460 of 2012 Mr Grishin Applicant And Ms Ebbs Respondent REASONS FOR JUDGMENT THE PROCEEDINGS Inthis matter, following a three day hearing in relation to T, who is aged three(the child), I suggested that, asa result of various concernsthat came to light in the course of the hearing, the matter be adjourned for afairly lengthy periodof time, that is, for something in the order of12 months to enable some of the matters that I am concerned about to beaddressedand monitored and for the Court, in effect, to become better informed,bearing in mind the orders that are being sought by both ofthe parties. Thisis a matter where the greatest issues as to the best interests of this childrelate to both of the primary considerations ofthe Family Law Act 1975(Cth) (the Act) that is, the benefit of the child having ameaningful relationship with both of her parents and theneed to protect thechild from physical or psychological harm, from being subjected to or exposed toabuse, neglect or family violence. It is also a matter where the issue of thecapacity of the parents to provide for the needs of the child is another issuethat hasloomed large in the hearing. Inrelation to the benefit to the child of having a meaningful relationship withboth of her parents, the matter is one in which bothparents had involvement inthe childs care during the reasonably short period that they livedtogether between late 2010 andMarch 2012 with the child having been born inJanuary 2011. In other words, the parties were together for a little over oneyearof the childs life. Therehas been an extraordinary amount of acrimony and conflict between the partiesboth, it appears, during the relationship, butcertainly since the parties haveseparated with each making allegations against the other of aggressive andviolent conduct and eachmaking allegations against the other in respect ofimpairment of their parenting due to significant alcohol misuse. It is,unfortunately,a matter where it may only be just now that the parents are eachcoming to terms with how serious both of these matters are, thatis, howsignificantly parenting can be impaired by serious alcohol misuse and byconflict and aggressive behaviour. Inaddition, however, in my view, there are other significant matters which arisefrom the Family Report and they relate to the mothersover-protectiveparenting style, which raises the risk of her difficulties in allowing the childto individuate, which could haveserious consequences for the child in laterlife. There are also concerns about the mothers ability to tolerate thechildbeing separated from her in order to spend time with the father, and it isbeing recommended by the Family Consultant that the mothershould seek toexplore and address the factors underlying this. Iam satisfied, as a result of the evidence which appears to be uncontradicted,that the mother still currently has a difficulty withher alcohol consumption. That is evidenced by, in particular, the various entries in the police records,which indicate that onvarious occasions when the police were called -particularly, at the mothers request, interestingly enough - to the homethatthe mother was found to be affected by alcohol, and the instance of drinkdriving in which she had her then 13 year old child inthe car with her. Iam also concerned about the mothers capacity to regulate her ownemotions, which can result in her behaving in an aggressivefashion and, in thatregard, I rely upon the facts contained in the fact sheet tendered upon hersentence in respect of the chargeof assault occasioning actual bodily harm. Indoing so, I reject her version of the events set out in her affidavit, includinganassertion that she acted in self-defence, and I note that the version in thestatement of facts is entirely consistent with the fathersversion inrelation to that matter. Sofar as the fathers alcohol use is concerned, I am of the view that at thetime the parties were together and during theperiod after which they wereseparated and prior to him ceasing alcohol use, he did have a significantproblem with alcohol use andit may very well be something that he needs toremain vigilant about for many years to come, if not for the rest of hislife. Itis, in my view, to his credit, regardless of how he was initially motivated,that it would appear that he has abstained from alcohol. There is no evidenceto indicate that that is not the case and, hopefully, he has become aware,including during the course of thishearing and listening to the FamilyConsultant, that the level of alcohol that he used is likely to have impairedhis own parentingand that it will be for the benefit of the child that he hasgiven up his alcohol. As I say, it may only be now that he has madethatconnection, but it certainly is a matter to his credit. Inote in this regard in passing that when the mother was questioned about herviews as to the father having given up alcohol, shecommented that it was goodfor his health and good for his relationship with his partner and that she toodid not seem to make theconnection between what we are really here about, andthat is the benefit for the child. Sofar as the fathers behaviour is concerned, as far as behaviour that isuncontested, there is only the matter of the incidentoutside the school. Allthe other allegations are disputed by him. The incident outside the school isalso a matter which is notan allegation. It was proven and he was found guiltyin relation to that conduct by another Court, though I note no conviction wasrecorded. It does not reflect well upon him, and I agree with the submissionmade by Mr Livingstone, that it is a concern that heengaged in that sort ofbehaviour after completing an anger management course. However, I note, that itmay be that this conducthas nothing to do with anger management. There areother reasons that people behave in ways in which their emotions are notproperlyregulated and that seemed to be the issue that was of concern to theFamily Consultant. Iwould certainly encourage the father to explore further some of his own issuesin relation to regulation of his emotions but, inmy view, that is not asworrying as concerns about the mother and her behaviour. In addition, as Isaid, there was the evidencethat came up in the Family Report about themothers parenting style and perhaps, once again, she has only just becomeawarethat issues in relation to her own childhood experience that are likely tobe related to her parenting style and that it would beto the childsassistance for her to seek support in exploring and addressing thosefactors. Itappears to me that the mother has had a difficult life in a number of ways,beginning with the evidence she gave about her ownadolescent years, which wasvery concerning. I also accept that she was the victim of significant domesticviolence in a previousrelationship and it very well may be that some mattersrelating to her parenting style and her over-protectiveness are also relatedtothose and it really does seem to be a matter for her own sake and moreparticularly for the childs that she needs to haveaddressed. DISCUSSION AS TO INTERIM ORDERS Sofar as the orders in the interim period are concerned, I do not feel bound bythe interim Orders that have been in place up untilnow. Interim Orders of thekind that were put in place by his Honour Collier J follow a process whichinvolves a two hour hearingwith submissions, at most. There is nocross-examination and it also seems that some of the matters which very well mayhave beenbefore him have been presented in a different way, or I have drawndifferent conclusions about them, as a result of the fully contestedhearing. Whatis being proposed by the father in respect of current interim orders is thatthere be shared parental responsibility, which isopposed by the mother whowants a continuation of the sole parental responsibility. Both parties agreethat the child is to livewith the mother. Both agree that there is to be agraduated increase in time with the father and it appears that both agree thatthere is no longer any need for supervision of the fathers time. Bothalso agree that the mother, who as I say I have thegreatest concerns about,should be given an opportunity, for the sake of the child, to address herdrinking and personal issues relatingto her parenting style and occasions whereshe appears to have difficulties regulating her emotions. The mother also saysthat thefather should also be required to or given the opportunity to addresssome issues of concern. Sothere are three areas that I have to consider, that is, the issue of theparental responsibility, the time with the father, andwhether the father shouldalso be required to address some deficiencies in his ownparenting. The law to be applied Asfar as the law to be applied, of course, even though this, at this stage, it isan interim proceeding, it is governed by Goode &Goode[1]. The Court has to upholdthe objects and principles in the Act and also must regard the best interests ofthe child as the paramountconsideration. Thestarting point does need to be the issue of parental responsibility and unlessthe Court makes an order changing the statutoryconferral of joint parentalresponsibility, then section 61C provides that each of the parents of the childhas parental responsibility for the child. But, of course, there is adifferencebetween that form of parental responsibility and joint sharedparental responsibility, which is what the father is seeking. Undersection 61DA, when making a parenting order, the Court must apply apresumption that its in the best interests of the child for thechildsparents to have equal shared parental responsibility, although thepresumption does not apply if there are reasonable grounds tobelieve that aparent or person has engaged in abuse of the child or family violence. This isa matter where, I think, both parentshave engaged in conduct which comes underthe category of family violence, or alternatively the Court can consider that itis notappropriate in the circumstances for the presumption to be applied whenmaking that order if it is an interim order. Iwas not addressed in terms of the issue of the presumption, but it is thefathers position that most of the criticism, forwant of a betterexpression, or perhaps most of the concern of the Court relates more to themother and in circumstances where soleparental responsibility was givenfollowing an interim hearing that did not go to oral evidence that this childshould not be deniedthe opportunity of a meaningful relationship with herfather and that, in application of the other circumstances set out in 60CCofthe Act, the parents should share parental responsibility. Themother puts up in opposition to that and for continuation, in effect, of theprevious interim Order, that it was put in placefor good reason by his Honour,it should continue, and that, in light of the high level of conflict and loomingissues such as preschool,it ought to be sole parental responsibility to themother. As I have indicated, my view is that the current regime or having soleparental responsibility with the mother means that this child is really nothaving the impact of the benefit of her father havingany input in importantdecisions and where the concerns that I have are, I have to say, greater withthe mother than with the father. That is not to say that I have not got someareas of concern; I have already alluded to them with respect to the father. Inmy view, having regard to the particularly factors I have identified, that is,the benefit of the meaningful relationship and theneed to protect the childfrom harm and also the issue of the capacity, I am of the view that there shouldbe an order for jointshared parental responsibility for this child. I takeinto account in that regard the evidence in relation to education. I didfindit concerning and I found the mothers answers quite unconvincing as towhy the older child J, had missed so much schooland, not only being late, butthe number of other days that had been missed, and the mothers failure toappreciate that thatcould have an impact on her childs education. Iam also concerned with the framework from which the mother appears to come, andthat is the over-protective framework. She seemedto have a sense that herchild needed a much greater degree of protection than in fact she did need andthe Family Consultant wasconcerned about what this meant in terms of her beingable to pick up on the childs cues and respond appropriately to thoseneeds. Those factors are also taken into account in relation to the orders asto the time with the father. Thebenefit of the child having a meaningful relationship will be promoted to agreater degree under the interim orders proposed bythe father than the mother. Currently,the father is still having his time with the child supervised. I see no reasonat all for that to be occurring. The fatherhas, on the evidence before me,taken some significant steps to address the issue in relation to alcohol. Hehas, it would appear,made the time that the child spent with him as fulfillingand enjoyable as possible for the child and the issue of aggression thatisraised by the mother seems to be only in existence in the context of immediatecontact with the mother and that can be alleviatedby appropriate changeoverorders. It certainly is not sufficient and I think there is no need for anysupervision to continue. Asfar as the need to protect the child from harm, as I say, I am more concernedabout the psychological harm that may be occasionedby the mothersover-protectiveness and the mothers issue with alcohol in this matter,than the concerns about harmarising from time with the father. Obviously,this child is too young to express views. Asfar as the nature of the relationship is concerned, the more recent and moreextensive report from the Family Consultant, the FamilyReport, certainlyindicated a growing relationship between the child and her father. Some of theconcerns that had been evidentat the earlier assessment in the context wherethe child had had little time with the father had certainly vastly improved andtherelationship was described by the Family Consultant as familiar anddeveloping. She described the child being able to be comfortedand settled bythe father when upset, but she noted at that time the child did not appear touse him as a secure base from whichto explore the room, which is obviously anissue that goes to the attachment. However,the Family Consultant went on to say that the relationship of the child with thefather appeared commensurate with the timeshe had spent with him and,certainly, the close and established relationship with the mother would not bedisrupted because thechild is to continue to live with her under eitherproposed orders. Essentially,the Family Consultant agreed that any extra time with the father needed to begraduated, but she certainly was not askedabout whether the fathersproposed regime was too fast or too slow or not sufficiently graduated, apartfrom being firmlyof the view that equal shared time was not in thechilds best interest, and I have to say, that it is to the fatherscredit that he has appreciated that pressing for that is not in thechilds best interests. TheFamily Consultant was also of the view that anything roughly similar, such assix days and eight days, was also not in the childsbest interests. Otherwise, she appeared to agree with the proposition that a gradual change tosomething short of that, but somethingakin to significant and substantial time,would be appropriate in these circumstances, unless the Court was satisfied ofthe significantrisk of harm in the fathers care. AsI have indicated, I am not, on what I have heard from the last three days,satisfied that there is a risk of harm in the fathershome. I am not ofthe view that this regime that is being proposed by the father is too fast. Ithink that the submissions madeon behalf of the mother, unfortunately,perpetuate her perception of the child needing a greater degree of protectionand a greaterneed to be with the mother and that the mother is somehow the onlyperson who is able to provide that security and safety for her. Ofcourse, one of the other issues to which I need to have regard is the likelyaffect of the change of circumstances. This willbe a change in circumstances. It will go from reasonably limited supervised time with the father tounsupervised time. That increaseis including overnight stay. I am of the viewthat, having regard to all of the evidence, the likely change will be to thebenefitof the child. She will be able to further develop her relationship withher father in a much more normal context without supervisionand without therisk of there being the subtle message that she needs to in some way beprotected from the father. It appears tome that the likely effect of thechange in circumstances is that it will further develop her relationship withher father and thatwill be to her benefit. Asfar as the capacity of the parents to provide for the childs needs, Ihave raised the issue of the concern that I have aboutthe motherscapacity to meet the childs emotional needs. There is also the issuethat possibly arises as a resultof the educational issue with the other childwhich is perhaps a concern about the capacity of the mother to appreciate thebenefitsthat the child would have from matters such as preschool introduced atan earlier age. But I certainly do not say and, in fact,I think I should statepositively on the record that there is not any suggestion that the mother is notable to meet the childsmaterial needs and there is no evidence tosupport that the child is not properly groomed, cared for from a hygiene pointof view,fed and matters of that kind. Thereare some other factors which perhaps should be touched upon but, in my view, thematters to which I have referred are the mostrelevant factors in all of thesecircumstances. Ihave indicated that I propose making an order for joint parental responsibility.I also make an order that the child live with themother and make an order inaccordance with orders 4(a) to (d) set out in the final orders of thefathers Initiating Applicationin terms of the time with the father. Iwill also make an order in terms of 5(a) in respect to a block holiday time. Iaccept that this child is not yet up to the age to partake in school holidaytime, but having a number of continuous days with herfather will, again, startto introduce the idea of holiday time with a view, hopefully, if all goes well,to building up to moretime in school holidays, which even the mother appearedto concede under cross-examination would be appropriate when the child wasofschool age. In my view, however, it is appropriate for this, and it is in thechilds best interests, to be introducedin the year before she commencesschool. Ialso make the orders set out in 6, 7 and 8. As to order 7, I think maintaininga communication book would be a good idea in keepingwith the recommendation ofthe Family Consultant in order to enhance the parents communication.Hopefully this is somethingthat will also show some improvement over the next12 months in that the parents will develop an ability to better communicatewithone another. Imake the injunctions set out in order 9, which are agreed to, and order 10 inrespect of changeover. Ialso make an order that an Independent Childrens Lawyer be appointed. That will be appropriate for the reasons submittedby Mr Livingstone and itis agreed to by both parties. Imake an order that each parent, pending further order, submit to a carbohydratetransferring deficient blood test (CTD) on a randombasis, and further that suchtesting be requested by the Independent Childrens Lawyer, not greaterthan once per month withsuch request to be made by letter, mail, fax or phonecall to the solicitor of the mother and the father, and such testing to beundertaken within 24 hours of such a request. Each parent is to then provide acopy of the test results to the solicitor of theother party and the IndependentChildrens Lawyer as soon as practicable. Ialso grant liberty to the Independent Childrens Lawyer to relist thematter in the event that the CTD testing shows thateither parent has consumedalcohol. Ialso make an order that the mother is to undergo assessment and any treatment asmay be directed in respect of alcohol misuse asrecommended by her generalpractitioner and also that the mother undertake counselling and treatment with apsychologist in respectof her emotional regulation and parenting style andfactors in relation to it, as identified by the Family Consultant in the FamilyReport, and the mother be at liberty to provide a copy of the Family Report toher general practitioner and psychologist. Themother is to advise the Independent Childrens Lawyer of the treatmentprovider in relation to alcohol misuse and counsellingas soon as practicableafter those professionals have been engaged and the Independent ChildrensLawyer is granted libertyto relist the matter before the Court if he or she hasany concerns in relation to the appropriateness of such treatmentproviders. Thematter will be relisted on 23 January 2015. I am not going to specify whatneeds to be provided to the Court. It is a matterreally for the IndependentChildrens Lawyer to put before the Court such material in relation to theintervening events ashe or she thinks appropriate, but, of course, the partiesare not prohibited from putting any further evidence before the Court iftheywish to do so. Thereis one final matter and that is whether the father ought to be required toundertake any further programs. It is a matter forthe father if he wishes toundertake any further programs. I am not satisfied in the circumstances that heis required to completeany further programs. Finally,I grant the parties a liberty to restore the matter to the list on 14days notice. I certify that the preceding forty-seven (47)paragraphs are a true copy of the reasons for judgment of the Honourable JusticeHannamdelivered on 7 February 2014. Legal Associate: Date: 25 February 2014 [1] [2006] FamCA 1346; (2006) FLC 93-286 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/89.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                