FAMILY LAW  CHILDREN urgent ex parte application by Independent Childrens Lawyer forimmediate change of residenceof children  application prompted bycontent of single experts report and recommendations. APPLICANT: Independent Childrens Lawyer FIRST RESPONDENT: Mr Rowe SECOND RESPONDENT: Ms Helbig INTERVENER: Secretary, Department of Family and Community Services FILENUMBER: (N)PAC 5421 of 2010 DATE DELIVERED: 9 October 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Newcastle PLACE HEARD: Newcastle JUDGMENT OF: Cleary J HEARING DATE: In Chambers REPRESENTATION APPLICANT: No appearance FIRST RESPONDENT: No appearance SECOND RESPONDENT: No appearance INTERVENER: No appearance ORDERS (1) Pursuantto rule 1.12 of the Family Law Rules 2004 the requirement for strict compliancewith any rules or regulations not complied with be dispensed with. (2) Leave is granted to the Independent Childrens Lawyer to file todayand serve in accordance with these Orders an Applicationin a Case made ex parteby the Independent Childrens Lawyer supported by an affidavit of SusannahOReilly affirmedon 8 October 2014. (3) The Independent Childrens Lawyer shall forthwith serve on the fathera copy of these Orders and the Application in a Caseand supportingaffidavit. (4) The Independent Childrens Lawyer shall this day deliver to thePrincipal (or his/her delegate) of P School at Town S acopy of these Orders andshall, subject to the agreement of the Principal to her remaining, stay in theprecincts of the school withthe children until the children are collected bytheir father from the school NOTING the Independent ChildrensLawyer may inform the Principal of the school that the Principal or his delegateis at liberty toadvise the mother of the children having left the school withthe father pursuant to Court Orders. (5) The Independent Childrens Lawyer shall thereafter forthwith serve acopy of these Orders and the Application in a Caseand supporting affidavit onthe mother and the Intervener by 10.00 am Friday, 10 October 2014. (6) That all prior parenting orders made in this Court and the Federal CircuitCourt in relation to X born ... 2005 and Y born ...2008 (thechildren) are suspended. (7) That the father shall have sole parental responsibility for thechildren. (8) The father shall collect the children from school today and they shallthereafter live with him and spend time and communicatewith the mother asfollows: 8.1 For a period of two weeks from the date of theseOrders, there shall be no contact between the children and the mother by anymeans whatsoever AND thereafter time and communication shall be as follows: 8.1.1 After the expiry of two weeks from the date of these Orders (commencing25 October 2014) the father shall facilitate the childrencontacting the motherby telephone at 9.00 am each Saturday, on Ys birthday in 2014 and onChristmas Day 2014 and may to thatend be present when the children make thecalls and/or may arrange for the call to be on loud speaker. 8.1.2 The father shall terminate the call in the event that the motherquestions the children about: (i) the fathers household; (ii) the possibility of abuse of the children by the father or other membersof his household. 8.2 After the expiry of four weeks from the date of these Orders (andcommencing on 8 November 2014) the children shall spend timeeach fortnight withthe mother supervised for two hours in a Contact Centre and failing agreementotherwise the PP Contact Centreeach fortnight. (9) The mother is restrained pursuant to Section 68B(1) of the Family Law Act1975 from: 9.1 Removing ortaking possession of the children. 9.2 Attendingon the fathers residence or on P School at Town S (theschool) or from being within 100 metresof the fathers residenceor the school. 9.3 The motheris to use her best endeavours to ensure that the maternal grandparents or Ms Mdo not attend upon the fathersresidence or the school or be within 100metres of the fathers residence or the school. 9.4 Contactingor communicating with the children other than in accordance with theseOrders. 9.5 The motheris to use her best endeavours to restrain the maternal grandparents or Ms M fromcontacting or communicating with thechildren. 9.6 Speaking tothe children about: 9.6.1 theseproceedings; and 9.6.2 theallegations made by or on behalf of the children by the mother and thirdparties. THE COURT NOTES: (A) The Chapter 15 Single Expert appointed by the Court has expressed the viewthat the mother may need a Case Guardian (referredto in the report as aguardian ad litem (Recommendation 13, page 48) for reasons stated in the reportdated 29 September 2014. IT IS NOTED that publication of this judgment by this Court under thepseudonym Independent Childrens Lawyer & Rowe and Anor hasbeen approved by the Chief Justice pursuant to s 121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act1975 (Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT NEWCASTLE FILE NUMBER:(P)PAC5421 of 2010 IndependentChildrens Lawyer Applicant And Mr Rowe First Respondent And Ms Helbig Second Respondent And Secretary, Department of Family and Community Services Intervener REASONS FOR JUDGMENT INTRODUCTION Inthis matter the Chapter 15 report by the single expert was received by the Courton 8 October 2014. Iintend to release the report to each of the parents and to the Intervener. Ihave taken the unusual step of releasing the reportto the IndependentChildrens Lawyer only in advance of the next Court event. I did that onWednesday 8 October 2014 pursuantto an order made on that day. The singleexpert asked for the report to be read by me at first instance The JudgesEyes alone. Ialso took the even more unusual step of seeing the Solicitor Advocate for theIndependent Childrens Lawyer in Chambers inthe absence of all otherparties. Anapplication was made by the Independent Childrens Lawyer to file anApplication in a Case ex parte, supported by an affidavitof the IndependentChildrens Lawyer. The application is in summary for a change ofresidence immediately for both childrenfrom the mother to the father withoutprior notice to the mother. Ihave taken those unusual steps for the following reasons: Thesingle expert has resolutely recommended an urgent change of residence for thechildren. Some relevant passages of a long detailedreport are extracted asfollows: Two scenarios were identified (pages 43-45) withregard to sexual abuse allegations. The second scenario was favoured by theSingleExpert. It was that there had been a mis-assessment of sexual abusehaving occurred. [1] In essence I formed the viewthat the second scenario was on balance the more likely one. I dontbelieve the sexual abuseon balance is likely to have occurred, and that thishas been more the anxiety of the mother which has been projected onto thechildren. [2] For the best interests of thechildren in order for them to have a long term relationship with both parents, Ibelieve that therewould need to be a change of residence. However should therebe a delay for such a change, where the children were exposed to thedistress ofthe mother and maternal grandparents that the mothers distress would haveextremely detrimental impact on thechildrens emotions. Specifically Iconclude that there were signs that the son [X] is already demonstrating signsof parentificationin support of the mother and he would feel obliged to standby his mother to protect her. There is an extremely high likelihood thegreatemotional responses in the mother and maternal grandparents would lead tofurther police and FACS involvement making any decisionof change of residenceimpossible. The pressure on the children would be so intense that they would, Ibelieve, refuse to leavethe mother and that the likelihood of lasting damage tofuture contact with the father would behigh.[3] Recommendations: [4] After two family report it hasbeen unsuccessful in establishing an ongoing relationship with both parents. Ibelieve the only alternativenow is for the children to be placed with thefather. I recommend that this happen immediately and without notice. [5] I believe that now the onlychance for a good outcome where the children can maintain a good relationshipwith both parents is ifthey are placed with the father. [6] I believe that the children areyoung enough to make such a change, and that they have got a very positiverelationship with bothparents. Itis a drastic step to take and is not consistent with the usual proceduralfairness afforded to parties before orders of such consequenceare made. Theother parties have been denied natural justice to the extent that they were notserved with the application beforeorders were made. Thisadversely impacts on the mother and also impacts on the father. Howeverthe risks identified are both profoundly serious and potentially irreparable. The Single Expert concluded that the motherhas developed an illusion ofvalidity about the sexual abuse of the children. Evenso, I would have been unwilling to take this step if not for the observation ofthe single expert as follows: The children were thrilled to seetheir father. They ran up to him and embraced him. They cuddled him andgreeted him. Thiswas so despite the presence of a woman Ms M, who came as a support person forthe mother. Ms M forced her way into the officeof the single expert refusingto wait outside when the children were interviewed. She had strongly andangrily told the doctor heshould not interview the father and childrentogether: The children seemed a little stressed by the fact that [MsM] was there and I didnt want her present. AccordinglyI have made interim orders for an urgent change of residence with provision fortime and communication in accordance withthe recommendations. The matter willbe heard in approximately three months commencing 19 January2015. I certify that the preceding eleven (11) paragraphs are atrue copy of the reasons for judgment of the Honourable Justice Cleary deliveredon 10 October 2014. Associate: Date: 10 October2014 [1] Line 1722 and following [2] Line 1753 and following [3] Report Single Expert released08/10.2014, par 4, p 46 [4] Line 1771 and following [5] Line 1787 and following [6] Line 1824 and following AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/859.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 