FAMILY LAW  CHILDREN  Interim parenting  caseguardian  case guardian appointed for ill mother case guardianappointed for interim only  best interests of children  timechildren spend with father in school holidays change in circumstances premature application  parties may consent to orders for futureholiday periods. APPLICANT: Mr Fontana RESPONDENT: Ms Rodgers INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: FILENUMBER: SYC 7894 of 2011 DATE DELIVERED: 8 September 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Sydney PLACE HEARD: Sydney JUDGMENT OF: Hannam J HEARING DATE: 8 September 2014 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: Mr Ford SOLICITOR FOR THE APPLICANT: Willis & Bowring COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENT: Ms Bedford SOLICITOR FOR THE RESPONDENT: John Spence & Associates COUNSELFOR THE INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: MsFalloon SOLICITOR FOR THE INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: Jennifer Weate & Associates ORDERS (1) Pendingfurther order, Mr B is appointed as a Case Guardian for the Respondent mother,Ms Rodgers, in these proceedings. (2) The document headed Minute of Consent Orders and signed by the parties shallbecome Courts Exhibit A intodays proceedings. (3) By consent and pending further order, orders are made in accordance withparagraphs 1 to 7 of Courts Exhibit A,asfollows: ThatOrder 2 of the Interim Orders made 6 February 2014, as amended on 18 March 2014,be varied so that [V] and [Y], both born ...2009 (the children)shall spend time with the father as follows: (i) In week 1: from 9.30 am on Saturday to 5.30 pm on Saturday, to commence onSaturday 13 September 2014; and (ii) In week 2: from 9.30 am on Saturday to 5.30 pm onSunday and for the purposes of changeover, the father shall collectand deliver the children to and from the mothersand Mr [Bs]residence. Thatan updated Report be prepared by Dr [R] whereby: (a) Dr [R] shall interview the parties, the children, Ms [L] and her children([M] and [N]), Mr [B] and any other people as determinedby Dr [R];and (b) Details of the mothers treatment and prognosis be provided to Dr [R]by the mothers treating doctors, as soon asinformation becomesavailable. Thatthe matter be listed for mention at a date convenient to the Court sometime inDecember 2014. ThatOrder 3 of the Orders made 6 February 2014 be discharged. Itis NOTED that the father and Case Guardian will discuss the children possiblyspending additional time with the father during theirschool holidays providedthe overnight time provided for above is going well. ThatMs [Ss] fees for her reports be paid from the monies held on trust forthe parties with the fathers solicitors,Willis & BowringSolicitors. Thatthe Independent Childrens Lawyer be reimbursed any monies she has paidfor Ms [Ss] report that is annexed to herAffidavit filed 1 September2014, from the monies held on trust for the parties with the fatherssolicitors, Willis &Bowring solicitors. (4) The mother is to provide reports from her treating doctors in relation toher treatment and prognosis as soon as such informationbecomes available fromtime to time. (5) The father is to spend time with the children during the September/Octoberschool holidays for overnights on 29 and 30 Septemberand 1 October commencingat 9.00 am on the first day and finishing at 6.00 pm on 2 October. (6) That any other application in relation to time during the December andJanuary holidays is dismissed. (7) Pursuant to Section 65DA(2) of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth), theparticulars of the obligations these Orders create and the particulars of theconsequences that may follow if a partycontravenes these Orders are included inthese Orders, annexed hereto. Notation: (8) That Dr R is unable to interview the parties until February 2015 and it isanticipated that her updated report will be availablein approximately March orearly April 2015. IT IS NOTED that publication of thisjudgment by this Court under the pseudonym Fontana & Rodgers has beenapproved by the Chief Justice pursuant to s 121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act1975 (Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT SYDNEY FILE NUMBER:SYC 7894 of 2011 Mr Fontana Applicant And Ms Rodgers Respondent REASONS FOR JUDGMENT INTRODUCTION Thisis an application for orders in addition to orders which have been consented toby all of the parties today. Itarises in circumstances where the final hearing in relation to the twin girls ofthe parties who are aged 5 was to commence today.The hearing was vacated lastweek following the Court receiving information in relation to the health of themother to the effectthat she has been diagnosed with a serious medicalcondition that requires her to remain in hospital for at least four weeks whereshe is receiving treatment and where she is unable to, at this stage,participate in these proceedings. ACase Guardian for the mother, being her husband was appointed pursuant to anorder made earlier today. Thecurrent circumstances surrounding the children spending time with their fatherinclude, that he previously had significant involvementin their care at onepoint in time and there was also a reasonably lengthy period of time where theyspent little time with him.It is common ground that the child, Y, in particularhad been suffering from a significant level of anxiety associated with beingseparated from her mother. For that purpose, both the children and the fatherhave been receiving therapy from a clinical psychologistMs S. The psychologisthas provided a recent affidavit and annexed report dated 30 August in relationto the progression of the buildingof the relationship with the children andtheir father. It is a positive report in the sense that it reflects positivelyon the supportgiven to the father in rebuilding that relationship and thepsychologist says that in her observations she has not witnessed anyanxiety ortrepidation with the little girls connecting to their father and that theyappear to have a secure attachment to him andhis wife. Thepsychologist also says that on numerous occasions both of the girls haverequested to sleep over at the fathers home, whichfor Y is a positiveimprovement because she previously had expressed some trepidation specificallyassociated with spending the nightat his home. Thepsychologist is of the opinion that both of the girls would benefit fromincreased contact with their father and extended familyand that should includeovernight time and all of the parties have agreed that overnight time shouldcommence. TheConsent Orders which I made provide for an increased regime of time for thegirls to spend with their father and his family. Itinvolves that every secondweek they will spend from Saturday morning to Sunday afternoon with him and hisfamily. This is in additionto spending all day Saturday with their father onthe alternate week. Theapplication in addition to the Consent Orders is for some holiday time in theSeptember/October holidays coming up and for sometime in the long Christmasholidays. Sofar as the September/October holidays is concerned, the application is for halfthe holidays, that is a week but there is a fall-backposition which would beacceptable to the father and that is three nights. Ms Falloon on behalf of theIndependent ChildrensLawyer consents to the three night proposal andagrees that is in the best interests of the children, whilst the mother opposesboththe three night and seven night proposal. MsFalloon and the mother both oppose the Court making orders at this stage inrelation to December and January. They essentiallysay that it is a prematureapplication and that the Consent Orders do allow for agreement to be reachedbetween the father and theCase Guardian about that holiday period. Further, theoutcome of the next step, being some overnight time, should be known andmonitoredprior to making any arrangement in relation to Christmas holidaytime. Essentiallythe father presses for his application in relation to the Christmas schoolholiday period at this time because he saysthat it will save the time, expenseand associated issues with coming back to Court for another application. Themain reason that the application is opposed by the mother is that she says thatthe re-introduction involving overnight time willonly have occurred on oneoccasion by the time these September/October holidays arise. Dr R, who is theChapter 15 expert in thematter, has at all times expressed caution and takingtime to reintroduce the children to their father. A very cautious and measuredapproach is essentially the mothers case and that it is too much too soonto go straight from one single night to three. Thefather and the Independent Childrens Lawyer both referred to theinformation coming from Ms S as being much more currentthan Dr R. TheIndependent Childrens Lawyer also submitted it may be that Dr R willchange her position somewhat as a resultof the clearly good work that has beendone with Ms S. They would both seek that I attach particular weight to MsSs reportof 1 September. In the report, Ms S describes increasingdistress with Y and V around the lack of certainty about future contactwiththeir father as both girls have maintained they would like contact to increasein frequency and duration. MsS said at this point that she was aware that the mother was seriously ill.Whilst it is true, (as has been pointed out by the motherslegalrepresentative) that it appears that she may have received some inaccurateinformation, I do not think that it is a particularissue of significance,bearing in mind that the children have been expressing that they want toincrease the frequency and durationof time spent with their father. It is thechildren who continue to say that they want to sleep over and to increase thetime spentwith their father. Inall of the circumstances, I think that the parents and particularly the fatherto his credit have been very patient in relationto the reintroduction ofhimself and his wife to the childrens lives. He has adhered to all of theexpert advice that he hasbeen given and participated in programs and appears tobe genuinely taking on board everything that the experts are telling him andbeing guided by it. MsS, whose information is the most current, was specifically directed to the issueof the childrens or Ys anxiety inrecommending more time spentwith the father. I do not think that an increase from one night to three nightsovernight is pushingthe children too hard in any way, though I do think thatseven nights is too much at this stage. Havingregard particularly to the issue of change in circumstances, it would beundoubtedly a difficult time for these children whentheir mother is seriouslyill. At this stage I accept the submission made on behalf of the IndependentChildrens Lawyer andthe mother that it is simply too early to be talkingabout December. Ialso think to the extent to which there is not a lot of faith put in thecapacity of the father and the Case Guardian to reach somesort of agreement,that it is premature. The father may be surprised that they are able to reachthat agreement. Again, especially,it will come to the point that it will beirresistible if the reports continue to be positive about thattime. I certify that the preceding eighteen (18) paragraphs are atrue copy of the reasons for judgment of the Honourable Justice Hannamdeliveredon 8 September 2014. Associate: Date: 14 October2014 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/871.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    