FAMILY LAW  PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE Legal Professional Privilege Examination by the Court to determineprivilege Parties requested to indicate why documents are then notamenable to discovery. Evidence Act 1995 (Cth) Family Law Act1975 (Cth) Esso Australia Resources Ltd v FederalCommissioner of Taxation [1999] HCA 67; (1999) 201CLR 49 Mann v Carnell , [1999] HCA 66; (1999) 201 CLR 1 Talackov Talacko [2014] VSC 328 APPLICANT: Mr Grattan RESPONDENT: Ms Grattan INTERVENOR: B Pty Ltd FILENUMBER: MLC 4259 of 2013 DATE DELIVERED: 24 October 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Melbourne PLACE HEARD: Melbourne JUDGMENT OF: Cronin J HEARING DATE: 3 October 2014 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: Mr Ackman QC with Mr Werner SOLICITOR FOR THE APPLICANT: Taussig Cherrie Fildes COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENT: Mr Glick QC with Mr Strum SOLICITOR FOR THE RESPONDENT: Kainelaw Australian Lawyers COUNSEL FOR THE 2NDRESPONDENT: Ms Ben-Simon SOLICITOR FOR THE 2ND RESPONDENT: C Law Firm ORDERS (1) Thedocuments marked privileged in the subpoena bundle and sealed are not releasedfor inspection. (2) Each party has leave to relist the matter at short notice on whether thesame documents are discoverable. IT IS NOTED that publication of this judgment by this Court underthe pseudonym Grattan & Grattan and Anor (No. 5) has been approved bythe Chief Justice pursuant to s 121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act 1975(Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT MELBOURNE FILE NUMBER:MLC 4259 of 2013 Mr Grattan Applicant And Ms Grattan Respondent And B Pty Ltd 2nd Respondent REASONS FOR JUDGMENT Bysubpoena issued by the Court at the request of Ms Grattan (thewife), a solicitor, Mr C, was required to producea variety of documentsincluding any files relating to professional work undertaken for Mr Grattan(the husband). Thesolicitor objected to the release of any documents which he determined were thesubject of legal professional privilege. The solicitorprepared a bundle ofdocuments said to be privileged. They were separated from the various documentsproduced and placed in a sealedenvelope with an appropriate index. Itwas common ground that I should examine the documents and, without disclosingthe details of the contents of them, indicate whetherI considered them soprotected by the privilege. That process has been followed by other courts (seefor example Talacko v Talacko [2014] VSC 328.) Theimportance of the privilege cannot be overstated. As was said by the High Courtof Australia in Mann v Carnell [1999] HCA 66; (1999) 201 CLR 1 at13, the privilege exists to protect the confidentiality of communicationsbetween lawyer and client. It is the client who is entitled to the benefitofsuch confidentiality and is the person who may relinquish that entitlement. Thehusband has apparently not waived the privilege and this ruling is thereforerequired. Sections118 and s 119 of the Evidence Act 1995 (Cth) (relating to legal adviceand separately to litigation) provide that evidence is not to be adduced if, onobjection by a clientof a lawyer, the court finds that adducing the evidence would result indisclosure of : (a) a confidentialcommunication between the client andanother person, or between a lawyer actingfor the client andanother person,that was made; or (b) thecontents of a confidential document (whetherdelivered or not) that was prepared; for the dominant purpose of the client beingprovided with professional legal services or that sort of assistance in ananticipatedproceeding in which the client isor may be a party. Section117 of the Act provides the various definitions about lawyers, clients andvarious types of proceedings. That was not contentious here. Toattract the privilege and to be protected when the lawyers communicationis contained in a document, the document must havebeen created for the dominantpurpose of obtaining legal advice: Esso Australia Resources Ltd vFederal Commissioner of Taxation [1999] HCA 67; (1999) 201 CLR 49at 65-66. Inan interlocutory proceeding relating to discovery and, I include in that thehearing in respect of the return of subpoenae, thedominant purpose testapplies. Was the document about which the claim is made, a confidentialcommunication? Was it prepared forthe dominant purpose of the lawyer providinglegal advice? Aconfidential document is defined to mean one prepared at a time when,relevantly, Mr C was prima facie under an express or implied obligationnot to disclose its contents. Such a document also means one under which, thehusband cannotbe required to disclose the contents of Mr Cs advice. Havinginspected the documents which number 18 in total, they all appear to relate tocorrespondence including emails involving acommercial entity named E Pty Ltdwith whom the husband (or his entities) had a contractual arrangement. They allrelate to the periodof July 2013 to September 2013. Globally, it must be said,they were all provided by the husband to Mr C for the purposes of seekingand,in response by Mr C giving advice about the named commercial entity. As such,they are privileged. Ifind each of the relevant documents appears to have been created by theirvarious authors for the dominant purpose of enabling thehusband and/or hisentities to obtain professional advice. ButI am not convinced the matter ends there. I find it curious that the documentsall relate to the one transaction. It is not appropriatethat I go further thanwhat I have already said (because the matter has not been so argued) but asthese are property proceedingsas between the husband and the wife, one wouldhave expected that the husband had an obligation to make disclosure of anydocumentrelating to actions involving property and/or an entity which is nodoubt the subject of the application for the alteration of propertyinterests.Whether those documents extend to legal advice about the transaction is adifferent issue. Chapter13 of the Family Law Rules and specifically rules 13.04 and 13.07 provide thereis a duty of disclosure of each document whichis relevant to an issue in thecase (as between husband and wife). There should immediately be some discussionabout whether or not,despite the confidential nature of the communications towhich I have referred, the documents are part of the disclosure process. Ishall give the parties an opportunity to discuss these issues. Icertify that the preceding Fifteen (15) paragraphs are a true copy of thereasons for judgment of the Honourable Justice Cronindelivered on 24 October2014. Associate: Date: 24 October 2014 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/909.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         