FAMILY LAW  PROPERTY Application by wife to be appointed as receiver manager application granted  questionof costs reserved FAMILY LAW  PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE  Directions made re filingof documents  directions made for the discoveryof documents application adjourned to a fixed date for mention Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) APPLICANT: Ms Booth RESPONDENT: Mr Booth FILENUMBER: AYC 468 of 2010 DATE DELIVERED: 18 August 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Melbourne PLACE HEARD: Melbourne JUDGMENT OF: Benjamin J HEARING DATE: 18 August 2014 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: Mr Ham SOLICITOR FOR THE APPLICANT: Richmond & Bennison COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENT: Mr Booth in person SOLICITOR FOR THE RESPONDENT: In person ORDERS Theseproceedings be listed for mention before me on 23 January 2015 at 4pm. Thatas and from 1 December 2014 the wife be appointed receiver manager for thepurpose of:- Negotiatingany contract required by G Pty Ltd for the remediation of the site at E Street,F Town; and Executingthe contract on behalf of the husband and wife for that purpose. Order2, above, shall suspend in the event that the husband obtains on or before the30 November a certificate from the EnvironmentalProtection Agency that theproperty is clear of the environmental damage and is able to be sold without theimpediment of the environmentaldamage. Leaveis given for the parties to attend via telephone link should they require,noting that at the mention I will be directing thatthere be:- updatedvaluation evidence if the property is able to be put in a position to besold; discoveryof financial records; and affidavit(s),including affidavits already filed and relied upon. Costsbe reserved. IT IS DIRECTED Atranscript of the judgement be taken out and placed on the court file. IT IS NOTED Itis likely that the previous valuers, H Valuers, update their valuation on theproperty. IT IS CERTIFIED Pursuantto Rule 19.50 of the Family Law Rules 2004 it was reasonable to engage counselto attend. IT IS NOTED that publication of this judgmentby this Court under the pseudonym Booth & Booth has been approved bythe Chief Justice pursuant to s 121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act 1975(Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT MELBOURNE FILE NUMBER: AYC 468 of 2010 Ms Booth Applicant And Mr Booth Respondent REASONS FOR JUDGMENT Thisis a continuation of proceedings between a husband and wife arising out of thebreakdown of the marriage and the property issuesarising therefrom. Thewife seeks two orders. Firstly, that she be appointed receiver manager tonegotiate with G Pty Ltd and presumably the EnvironmentalProtection Agency ofNew South Wales in respect of the site of a service station at E Street, F Town,including executing documentson behalf of her and the husband. Secondly, sheseeks the payment of a sum totalling some $10,442.33 by way of interim propertyorders made by me in December last year. Theparties have been in conflict for some time and I repeat and reiterate thathistory which I set out in my reasons for judgmentdelivered ex tempore on 16December 2013. Central to this dispute is the parties interest in aproperty at E Street, F Town. This was, as I said, a former service stationwhere there has been significant environmental damage done and which the StateofNew South Wales requires to be remediated. G Pty Ltd has shown a willingnessto remediate the site but has not exculpated the partiesin relation to anyclaim which they may make against the parties for the cost of remediation. Whenthe matter came before me last year, G Pty Ltd had offered the parties anagreement whereby G Pty Ltd would lease the premises,or most of the premises and theres an argument as to the extent of that  pay arent of some 50-odd thousanddollars a year and attend to the remediationsufficient to meet the concerns of the State Environmental ProtectionAgency. Thehusband said that he wanted to remain on the property, run his business andperhaps set up a service station business. He saidit would make sufficientmoney for him to pay the wife a sum of money to which she would otherwiseanticipate had G Pty Ltd haveleased the property. The husband said he was in abetter position knowing the commercial side of the transactions and the statusof the site to deal with that aspect of it. Sincethat time, a number of things have happened which are not in dispute. Firstly,the husband has not paid to the wife the moneyto which he said he would paywhich is currently in arrears of some $10,442.33. The husband claims that thereason this money hasnot been paid is that the wife withdrew her consent to asignage which would have enabled the service station to operate at thattime. He says the wife signed the document. The wife says she didnt sign thedocument. I am not, at this stage, in a positionto make a finding, nor shouldI because I would have to see that entirely in context. Thisyear, G Pty Ltd said that it would offer a larger sum, that is, $60,000, tolease the property and undertake the remediationwork. The husband says thatthe work that he has undertaken has reduced the level of toxicity, ifthats the right word, fromtwo point something metres to four millimetresor something along that line. I take it, from what the husband is saying, thattherewas buckets of environmental damage there and now theres minisculeenvironmental damage there. The husband says that he understandsthe blockbetter than others do, even though he has no formal qualifications and astheres no flow of water through the property,as I understand it, thathis method which is a slow method, is likely to achieve a result mustfaster. Onthe husbands evidence, the site could be cleared within a period of fourweeks, although when pressed in submission, hesays it could take longer,depending on who has to give the certificates. Thewife, on the other hand, as has been the history of this matter, has been leftout of negotiations, barely understanding whatnegotiations take place and incircumstances where she has little trust in the accuracy of what is said by thehusband, and in circumstanceswhere, if an order had been made last year that GPty Ltd had access to the site she would be receiving income from the propertywhich she is now not receiving bearing in mind the circumstances. Theconcern that the wife has is that if the husband continues to approach thematter the way he is approaching it, it may induceG Pty Ltd to walk away fromthe process and leave it to him which means that she would be tied up forever inthe circumstances inwhich she finds herself. Thehusband says if the wife interferes with the commercialarrangements, the property wont be secured and cleanedand put in aposition where it is free of the environmental damage. The husband has made itclear that he wishes to acquire theproperty although there is no evidencebefore me as to how he can finance that and what his circumstances are to enablethat to occur. Mytask, as the husband rightly says, is not to become involved in the commercialdispute between the parties, but to preserve theproperty for the parties sothat there is something for distribution at the conclusion of this process. Iindicated to the partiesthat I would retain this matter. I passed it back lastyear in the likelihood that it would take many years for this remediationworkto be undertaken. If the husband is right, the remediation work will becompleted relatively quickly. Iintend to give him some time to complete that remediation work, Mr Ham, but putin place an order that if it is not completed withina reasonable period oftime, that your client will end up managing the site as she seeks. That willthen add some incentive to thehusband to get the work done in that time and ifit is done, well then there is no need for that to occur. If the work is notdone,then the wife can take such steps as she considered appropriate to enterinto negotiations with G Pty Ltd and the Environmental ProtectionAgency. Iwas going to order an updated valuation but my fear with that is that if thesite is not as optimistically in the state that thehusband says, and thecertificates to enable the property to be sold are still months or even longeraway, I will not at this stageimpose upon the parties the cost of obtaining anupdated valuation which will need to be updated again. However, I intend tobringthis matter back before me in early January 2015 for directions for trial.So that if all is done, then I can order an up-to-datevaluation. I can orderdiscovery and I can order the filing of affidavits or the reliance on existingaffidavits because I am concernedabout the costs that these parties are exposedto. I certify that the preceding fourteen (14) paragraphs are atrue copy of the reasons for judgment of the Honourable Justice Benjamindelivered on 18 August 2014. Associate: Date: 18August 2014 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/847.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         