FAMILY LAW  CHILDREN who child lives with APPLICANT: Mr Rasmussen RESPONDENT: Ms Rasmussen INTERVENOR: Department of Family and Community Services INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: Mr Haddock FILENUMBER: CAC 1664 of 2011 DATE DELIVERED: 8 May 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Canberra PLACE HEARD: Canberra JUDGMENT OF: Faulks DCJ HEARING DATE: 8 May 2014 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: Mr Miller SOLICITOR FOR THE APPLICANT: Watts McCray Lawyers COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENT: Ms Godtschalk SOLICITOR FOR THE RESPONDENT: Farrar Gesini Dunn ORDERS (1) Thehearings being this day 8 May 2014 and 7-9 July 2014 are vacated. (2) Until further order, the mother will have sole parental responsibility forthe children, B, born ... 2004, and C, born ... 2008. (3) The children will live with their mother. (4) The children will spend time with their father for a period of three hoursonce each month and will occur on the first Saturdayof the month, unless theparties otherwise agree, and will be subject to professional supervision whichwill be paid for by the father. It is noted that the arrangements about thetime the children spend with their father will be subject to the availability oftheprofessional supervisor and cost and each of the parents will, if thearrangements set out before are not consistent with those qualifications,dotheir best to reach agreement about an alternative arrangement. (5) The children may, and their mother will help them to, communicate with theirfather by letters, cards and photographs and e-mailsand their father maycommunicate with them in a similar way at any reasonable time, but not more thanonce a week. (a) The motherwill convey those communications to the children but unless she forms theopinion based on reasonably objective factsthat to do so would cause them harmor distress. (6) Until further order, the children will not have telephone contact with theirfather. (7) The childrens mother will ensure that the childrens schools,where it is appropriate that it should be so, willkeep the father informed byany communications they may send from the school about activities at the schooland at his request theschool will provide the father with copies of reports inrelation to the children. (8) The mother will communicate with the father by text message in relation toany medical activities relating to the girls and inparticular any treatmentthat they may be undergoing from time to time not including minor common placediseases and illnesses. (9) Each of the parents be and is hereby restrained from personally or causingor allowing any other person, so far as they are ableto prevent it being done,from discussing these proceedings with the children or the proceedings involvingthe father in the criminalcourts. (10) Any party has liberty to restore the matter to the list if there is achange in the arrangements about the criminal proceedingsand in particular theIndependent Childrens Lawyer may either at the request of either of theparents or the Director causethe matter to be relisted to deal with any otherissue that may arise in the meantime. (11) The matter is otherwise adjourned until the completion of the criminalproceedings against the father. IT IS NOTED thatpublication of this judgment by this Court under the pseudonym Rasmussen & Rasmussen and Anor has been approved by the ChiefJustice pursuant to s 121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT CANBERRA FILE NUMBER:CAC 1664 of 2011 Mr Rasmussen Applicant And Ms Rasmussen Respondent And The Department of Family and CommunityServices Intervenor REASONS FOR JUDGMENT Thebroad parameters of my decision in this matter are dictated or agreed almost byeveryone in terms of what has been put to me today. There are some exceptionsand I should probably deal with those, however I should indicate that there isagreement in this matterthat Ms Rasmussen will have the sole parentalresponsibility for the children and that the children will live with her. If itwerenot the case that there was agreement about that (which, in itself, in myopinion, negatives the presumption), I am satisfied thepresumption is rebuttedin these circumstances and, even if I were not satisfied that it was otherwiserebutted, I take the viewthat is agreed at the commencement interim proceedingsand that therefore presumption need not apply. Theparties lawyers and the independent childrens lawyer havecorrectly concentrated on the arrangements that mightproperly be made for thechildren to spend time with or have some form of communication with theirfather. This is by no means aneasy task given that various and competingfactors that come into play in this matter. I have been significantly assistedby thereport of Ms H (which became J1). I have listened very carefully to thesubmissions and to the questions that were put to her todayand, in particular,matters arising out of the recent incidents, most particularly, the fact thatMr Rasmussen has been charged withoffences in relation to each of thegirls. Itis properly important to record that it is in relation to each of the girls, notto one of them as was the original allegation. I have not lost sight of thefact that the allegation is not of sexual abuse in relation to each but I do notthink that altersthe overall context of the matter. I think it would be areasonable interpretation of Ms Hs evidence, in the light of themattersthat were put to her today, that, as Mr Haddock has put to me in hissubmissions, the balance of the harm that might be causedto the children fromnot having any time with their father and the harm that would be occasioned orcould potentially be occasionedto them, both physically and psychologically, bytheir having time with their father might be resolved or the balance might befoundin limited physical time under professional supervision. I do not recallher attitude to time on the telephone being explored asthoroughly as it hasbeen in submissions this afternoon as with Mr Haddock, so I will return to thatmatter in due course. Iam prepared to accept in this matter, for the reasons I shall articulate in afew moments, the advice of Ms H about the fact thereshould be some potentialcontinuing supervised time for the children with their father. Mr Miller,in his submissions to me afterconsultation with his client and listening to thecross-examination, I think, has taken a responsible position to suggest that thesupervision should, subject to availability and cost, be professional andavailable and he seeks one period of up to three hoursonce a month. In myopinion, that is an appropriate order. Ithink that it is impossible to be precise in the balancing of the various risksthat are identified in this matter. I accept that,during a period ofprofessional supervision, it is not reasonably possible for the girls to bephysically harmed by Mr Rasmussen,even if he were so minded. Themore difficult aspect of this matter, of course, is what psychological harmmight be occasioned to them because of the newly arisenfact that Mr Rasmussenhas been charged with a criminal offence and the girls must necessarily beinvolved in the prosecution ofthose offences in due course. Atthe moment, the evidence is that the girls are unaware of their involvement intheir fathers prosecution and it would besensible for me to make orders(and I ask you to remind me if I do not) which would in large measure leave thatsituation in placeduring this period. Nevertheless, there is always the riskso far as the girls are concerned that their father and his wife or theirfriends or any members of the family may either directly attempt to influencethem in what evidence they may give to the Court indue course  thecriminal Court  or, and I think, in this case, far more likely, have aneffect on the girls of causingthem either to take their fathers side,whatever that may be, without necessarily understanding what it may be, oralternatively,expressing sympathy and love for their father, both of which seemto be things that the girls are prepared to do at the moment, inany event. They may be subconsciously affected in what they do and, while it would be anabuse of language to refer to such a thingas being coercive behaviour, theindirect effect of this may cause a difficulty for the girls. That is theprimary risk so far asthat element is concerned. Iaccept that the police, as their position has been reported by Ms Christie, maytake a different view but their concerns are moreabout the success or otherwiseof a trial rather than the best interests of the children. Against the riskthat I have just articulated,and I do not pretend to do an exclusive orcomprehensive analysis of all of the risks, is the risk that the girls may bedeprivedof a relationship with a father who claims to love them and for whomthey appear to exhibit love as well, and the fact that, in theend, theallegations may not be proved. In that case, their relationship may be damagedpermanently if they were to have no timewith their father at all. Thisis a difficult balance, no matter how it is to be done, and, to be honest, atthis stage of the evidence, it is impossible tomake any satisfactory assessmentof the fact of whether or not the abuse has occurred until the evidence has beentested in a moreappropriate way. Giventhose two  if one might put it that way  risks of harm to thechildren, psychological or otherwise, it seems tome that it is helpful to turnto someone who has the qualifications  and the qualifications were notdisputed  to makea more informed psychological assessment of theparticular values of those risks and Ms Hs advice, as I interpret it fromthe evidence she has given today, is that the supervised time that is now soughtby the father falls within the proper range of conductthat would not impose anunacceptable risk on the children. Iaccept that opinions about that matter may differ but, in the context of theseproceedings, it seems to me that that is an appropriatebalancing of the risk. In coming to that conclusion, and I am conscious of the fact I have not saidanything about telephone contactat this point, I do take account of the way inwhich the children are reported to have behaved in the presence of their fatherasan expression of a view, at least to some extent, that they want therelationship to continue. Inote the nature of the relationship with the children in the past with theirfather and with their mother and I note that the factthat the children spendtime with their father may impose a strain upon their mother who will be, by anymeasure, on an interim basisand possibly permanently, their primary carer. Inote that the proposal now made by the father is, as Mr Miller has correctlysuggested,an indication of a degree of insight and an acceptance ofresponsibility on his part which must have been a hard thing to do andI acceptthat fact. Ialso accept, for what it is worth at this stage of the proceedings, that themother has behaved entirely responsibly in the wayin which she has presentedherself and the case to the Court and she has deliberately been restrained inboth the way in which shehas pursued the allegations, while taking appropriatecare and consideration for the safety of the children and her appropriateobligationsas a mother for those children in those circumstances. Sofar as the telephone communication is concerned, this matter is extraordinarilydifficult. I accept that the mother does not wantto be the person who islooking over the childrens shoulder or perhaps listening at their earwhile they are talking on thetelephone, and that in itself would not mean thatit would not be appropriate that she should have that monitoring role. I do notthink it would be appropriate either for Mr Rasmussen or for the children forhim to have unmonitored conversations with them duringthis period pending thetrial. Thedifficulty for Mr Rasmussen, taking perhaps the easier part of it first, is thatif this was so, it could subsequently be assertedto him in the course ofcriminal proceedings or in proceedings in this Court, that he had neverthelessattempted to influence thechildren and, whether he did or not, an inferencemight be drawn that he conducted himself in a way which influenced them, if notcoerced them within the meaning of the Act, to a position which was advantageousto him. So from one point of view, some form ofsupervision or monitoring isessential for Mr Rasmussens care. Now,Mr Rasmussens best interests are not necessarily what I am obliged totake into account and certainly not over the bestinterests of the children. Sofar as the children are concerned, it is difficult for them in the context of aconversation withtheir father to perhaps have the boundaries and warnings andprotective safety nets around what might occur. With an adult who wasotherwisean equal with the person on the other end of the phone. That would suggestthat, in the childrens best interestsand for their protection, it wouldbe important there should be someone who is capable of perhaps perceiving thingsthat they cannotperceive at their age and to interfere if necessary toterminate the call. Theonly logical person to do this is the mother and if she is willing  andin this case, I think reasonably unwilling in thesense that it is not fair forher to be placed in the position of having to carry out this role  if sheis unwilling or unableto do this, then, in my opinion, the balance lies inthere not being the telephone communication. That was contrary to the viewthatI in fact had formed about the situation before I came back into Court thisafternoon, although I recognised that there weregrave difficulties associatedwith the whole question of telephone communication that I had not thoughtthrough, but it seems tome that is the only reasonable way in which I couldresolve the conflict. Accordingly, I shall make orders in those terms. Iwould suggest that we simply nominate a Saturday or a Sunday and that it shouldbe either the first or the last Saturday or Sundayof the month so that there isa predictable time that everyone can plan for, but I will make that subject tothe availability ofthe supervisory people. I think reasonably I would say thefirst is probably the easiest because it then is clear for what it iseachmonth. The time that the children spend with their father will occur on thefirst Saturday of the month unless the partiesotherwise agree and will besubject to professional supervision which will be paid for by the father. Itis noted that the arrangements about the time the children spend with theirfather will be subject to the availability of the professionalsupervisor andcost and each of the parents will, if the arrangements set out before are notconsistent with those qualifications,do their best to reach agreement about analternative arrangement. Eachof the parents is hereby restrained from personally or causing or allowing anyother person, so far as they are able to preventit being done, from discussingthese proceedings with the children or the proceedings involving the father inthe criminal Courts. I certify that the preceding twenty (20)paragraphs are a true copy of the reasons for judgment of the Honourable DeputyChief JusticeFaulks delivered on 8 May 2014. Associate: Date: 24 February 2016 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/843.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           