FAMILY LAW  COSTS  application madeby the wife for party/party costs in the sum of $2,785 to be paid by the husband application for costs is opposed by the husband  applicationrefused. Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) s 117 APPLICANT: Ms Cao RESPONDENT: Mr Gwerder FILENUMBER: MLC 4238 of 2014 DATE DELIVERED: 3 October 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Melbourne PLACE HEARD: Melbourne JUDGMENT OF: Thornton J HEARING DATE: 3 October 2014 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: Ms Stavrakakis SOLICITOR FOR THE APPLICANT: Berry Family Law COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENT: Ms Davison SOLICITOR FOR THE RESPONDENT: Davison Family Lawyers ORDERS (1) BYCONSENT there be orders in accordance with the minutes of proposed ordersmarked Exhibit A sealed and attached hereto AND IT ISDIRECTED that such minutes remain upon the Court file. (2) The solicitor for the applicant wife engross the minutes and deliver them byelectronic transmission to my Associate within sevendays. (3) The wifes application for party/party costs be dismissed. (4) Each party bear their own costs. AND THE COURT NOTESTHAT: Thesubstantive proceedings remain listed for a conciliation conference on 20October 2014 at 2.15 pm. IT IS NOTED that publication of this judgment by this Court underthe pseudonym Cao & Gwerder has been approved by the Chief Justicepursuant to s 121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT MELBOURNE FILE NUMBER:MLC 4238 of 2014 Ms Cao Applicant And Mr Gwerder Respondent EX TEMPORE REASONS FOR JUDGMENT Thisis an application by the wife for party/party costs of $2,785 to be paid, whichcomprise of $985 being scale costs for the instructingsolicitor and $1,800 forthe brief fee for counsel today for the wifes Application in a Case filed22 September 2014. Theapplication for costs is opposed by the husband. Thewifes application is based on an assertion that the husband has failedtocomply with the orders made by Registrar Marrone on 15 July 2014. Firstly,the wife submits that the husband has been late in relation to the filing of aResponse to the Initiating Application whichwas, in fact, filed on 22September 2014 and which was not in conformity with the orders made by RegistrarMarrone that it be filed on 5 August 2014. Secondly,the wife submits that the statement of financial circumstances filed by thehusband three days late, on 8 August 2014, didnot comply with the rules or withthe order made by Registrar Marrone in that it did not provide all the detailsof the statementsfor two superannuation funds that he had deposed to in hisfinancial statement where he provided amounts of the superannuation fundsbutnot the details and not the statements of two of those funds. Thewifes case is that an Application in a Case was required to be filed dueto the non-compliance by the husband and thatthe solicitors for the husbandwere notified on 27 August 2014 that the wife would be issuing an Application ina Case if compliancewith the orders of 15 July 2014 was not forthcoming. Iaccept that the husbands Response was not filed until 22 September 2014,which is certainly not in compliance with the ordersof the registrar. However,I am not necessarily satisfied that this places the wife at any greatdisadvantage, having regard tothe fact that it was an Application in a Case inrelation to interim matters. The wifes Application in a Case soughtcompliancewith paragraphs 12 and 19 of the orders of Registrar Marrone made on15 July 2014, with which the husband has complied, and thatthe husband provideto the wife the computer located at the former matrimonial home, that in theevent the husband fails to complywith the above, the wifes applicationproceed on an undefended basis and that the husband pay the wifes costsof theApplication in a Case on an indemnity basis. Inmy view, the wifes application and submissions essentially focus on thelack of discovery in relation to the two superannuationfunds that are referredto in the financial statement of the husband which was filed three days late,and I do not think there isanything significant in the three days. Theresponse to the application for costs from counsel for the husband is that thehusband was not in possession of those statementsfor the two superannuationfunds, one of which was a fund to which he was entitled for a period of onlyfour months and that he wasnot in possession of that statement for that fundand also he was not in possession of the documents for the other fund. In thosecircumstances, he has not been in a position to provide the information. Thequestion of costs is always a discretionary matter under section 117 of theFamily Law Act 1975 (Cth) (the Act). The generalrule is that each party should bear his or her own costs of the proceedings. Iaccept, to someextent, that there has been an issue of non-compliance with thelate filing of the Response of the husband but I do not considerthat that is amajor issue which prejudices the wife in an interim application. Aside fromthat, there is also the question of whetherI should consider that there isanything that justifies an order for costs under s 117(2A) of the Act whichmandates the factors to which the Court should have regard in consideringwhether to make an order for costs atall. Counselfor the wife relies upon s 117(2A)(c) and (d) of the Act. Section 117(2A)(c)refers to the conduct of the parties to the proceedings and subsection (d)refers to whether the proceedings were necessitated bythe failure of a party tothe proceedings to comply with previous orders. I do not consider that there issufficient reason hereto go beyond the general rule having regard to theconduct of the parties in this case because I consider that the husbandsfinancial statement filed 8 August 2014 has outlined the detail of the amountthat was involved in relation to the three superannuationfunds, notwithstandingthat there was not any further material provided for two of them but that wasnot available to the husbandat the time and I accept that assertion. Inrelation to a costs order, it is always a discretionary matter for the Court andwhilst it is only party/party costs that havebeen sought and not indemnitycosts, it is a matter of discretion. I also take into account that there havebeen other aspects whichhave really progressed the case today where the partiesagreed to matters over and beyond what were required, and the need forattendanceat Court in relation to that has, in fact, assisted the wife. Insuch circumstances, the conduct of the parties should be takeninto account. Itis inappropriate as a matter of discretion to make an order for costs againstthe husband in those circumstances but particularlywhere he was not inpossession of the material that was sought by the wife. I refuse theapplication for costs and order that eachparty is to bear their owncosts. I certify that the preceding eleven (11) paragraphs are atrue copy of the ex tempore reasons for judgment of the Honourable JusticeThornton delivered on 3 October 2014. Associate: Date: 14 October 2014 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/863.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     