FAMILY LAW  PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE Stay  where husband seeks a stay of financial orders pending outcome ofappeal where wife opposes sale and seeks to enforce final orders husband seeks to appeal percentage adjustment and the wifessoleoccupation of the former matrimonial home  whether appeal renderednugatory  wife entitled to fruits of the judgment balance ofconvenience  stay of some orders granted on conditions FAMILY LAW PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE  Variation of Final Orders  wherehusband seeks partial property settlementfollowing final orders to meet pastand future legal costs where husband submits Court has power to makeorders pursuant sos 80 or s 117  wife opposes husbandsapplication  orders sought by husband make no provision for adistributionof funds to the wife  sufficient security and conditions ofstay Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) ss 80,117 Family Law Rules 2004 (Cth) r 22.11 Aldridge & Keaton (Stay Appeal) [2009] FamCAFC 106 Friscioni & Friscioni [2009] FamCAFC43 In the Marriage of Davidson (1994) 17 Fam LR 656 Strahan& Strahan (Appeal Costs) [2009] FamCAFC 225 TWN & PAQ (2005) FLC 93-230; [2005] FamCAFC 677 Trahn & Long (No 2) [2008]FamCAFC 194 Yunghanns and Ors & Yunghanns and Ors [1999] FamCA 64; (1999) FLC92-836 Zschokke & Zschokke [1996] FamCA 79; (1996) FLC 92-693; (1996) 20 Fam LR766 APPLICANT: Mr Selwood RESPONDENT: Ms Selwood FILENUMBER: DNC 359 of 2010 DATE DELIVERED: 14 October 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Adelaide PLACE HEARD: Darwin JUDGMENT OF: Dawe J HEARING DATE: 9 September 2014 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: Mr Norrington SOLICITOR FOR THE APPLICANT: DS Family Law COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENT: Ms Farmer SOLICITOR FOR THE RESPONDENT: Withnalls Lawyers ORDERS (1) Pendingdetermination upon appeal paragraphs 23(a), (b) and (d), and 28 of Orders made18 July 2014 are stayed. (2) That the husband and wife each receive ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY THOUSANDDOLLARS [$150,000] from the proceeds of sale of the properties located at LStreet, Suburb M, in the Northern Territory and N Street, Suburb P in theNorthern Territory. (3) The monies referred to in paragraph (2) be placed and retained in interestbearing trust accounts in the names of each of therespective solicitors for thehusband and wife pending further order. (4) That the balance of the proceeds of sale be deposited into and retained inan interest bearing account in the joint names ofthe parties pending furtherorder. IT IS NOTED that publication of this judgmentby this Court under the pseudonym Selwood & Selwood (No. 2)has been approved by the Chief Justice pursuant to s 121(9)(g) of theFamily Law Act 1975 (Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT ADELAIDE FILE NUMBER:DNC 359 of 2010 Mr Selwood Applicant And Ms Selwood Respondent REASONS FOR JUDGMENT INTRODUCTION On18 July 2014 I delivered judgment in relation to both parenting and propertymatters between Mr Selwood (the husband)and Ms Selwood(the wife). The husband subsequently filed a Notice of Appealseeking to challenge the orders madein relation to injunctions, childmaintenance and property. The husband now seeks a stay of those orders pendingdetermination ofthe appeal. Thehusband also seeks a variation of the orders to allow for the sale of theproperty located at N Street, Suburb P (the SuburbP property)with the proceeds of sale to be paid to the husband pursuant to either s80(1)(h) or s 117 of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) (theAct) to enable the husband to meet the ongoing cost of litigation. Theproperty is valued at approximately$500,000. Thewife opposes the husbands application and seeks to enforce the orders. The wife also sought orders that until such timeas the issue of the costs ofthe final hearing are determined that the sum of $300,000, payable to thehusband pursuant to the ordersof 18 July 2014, be held in trust until furtherorder. Brief Background Thewife commenced proceedings by way of an Initiating Application seeking propertysettlement orders in the Federal Magistrates Courtof Australia (as it then was)in August 2010. The husband filed a Response seeking both parenting andproperty orders shortly thereafter. InMay 2011 the husbands parents, Ms K Selwood and Mr H Selwood, intervenedin proceedings. Thefinal hearing commenced before me on 9 July 2012 and at the conclusion of thehearing on 13 July 2012 orders were made by consentwhich released theinterveners from further participation in proceedings. The trial was adjournedpart heard. Thehearing continued over a number of days in 2012 and into 2013 beforeI reserved my judgment on 24 April 2013. Thematter was reopened following an Application in a Case filed by the wife inFebruary 2014. Further affidavit material was filedand I heard evidence fromboth parties in May 2014. Following a total of 21 hearing days I reservedjudgment on 15 May 2014. Judgmentwas delivered in relation to final parenting and property matters on 18 July2014. On28 July 2014 the wife informed the husband that, pursuant to paragraph 23 of theorders made 18 July 2014, she elected to retainthe former matrimonial home at OStreet, Suburb I, Northern Territory.. Thehusband filed a Notice of Appeal on 14 August 2014 seeking to challenge theorders in relation to injunctions, child maintenanceand property matters. Thehusbands Notice of Appeal contains 27 grounds of appeal. Thehusband filed an Application in a Case seeking a stay of orders 22 to 28,inclusive, of the orders made by me on 18 July 2014pending theconclusion of Appeal of the said orders. AnAmended Application in a Case was filed by the husband on 5 September 2014 inwhich he sought the following orders: 1 That Orders 22-28(inclusive) of the Orders made 18 July 2014 be stayed pending the conclusion ofAppeal of the said Orders. 2 That within 7 days of the date of these Orders, the Husband and Wife do allnecessary things and sign all necessary documents tolist the property situateat [N] Street, [Suburb P] for sale in the following terms: a) the property to be listed for sale with [LL Real Estate Agents]; b) In the event that the parties are unable to agree upon a listing price,they shall accept the recommendations of the real estateagent appointedpursuant to paragraph 2(a) for sale of the property; c) On completion of the sale the proceeds of the sale should be applied asfollows: i. Firstly, to pay all costs, commissions and expenses incurred in respect ofthe sale; ii. Secondly, to pay all outstanding municipal rates and other levies due inrespect of the property; and iii. Thirdly, to pay the balance to the husband; IN THE ALTERNATIVE iv. Thirdly, to pay to the husband $291,388.33. v. Fourthly, the remaining balance to be paid into the parties jointNational Australia Bank, mortgage account, ... . 3 That the sum paid to the husband pursuant to Order2(d)(iii) or (iv) be byway for Section 117(2) of the Family Law Act 1975 IN THE ALTERNATIVE 4 That the sum paid to the husband pursuant to Order 2(d)(iii) or (iv) be byway for Section 80(1)(h) of the Family Law Act 1975 Atthe commencement of the hearing the solicitor for the husband identified atypographical error in the orders sought. Where a referenceto Order2(d)(iii) or (iv) appears it is intended to be a reference to Order2(c)(iii) or (iv). Thewife filed a Response on 5 September 2014 seeking to have the stay applicationdismissed and the husband pay the costs of andincidental to theapplication. Theapplication came before me on 9 September 2014. Both parties were represented. Following submissions I reserved judgment. The Law Application for a Stay Pursuantto the Family Law Rules 2004 (Cth) the filing of a Notice of Appeal does not inand of itself stay the operation of an order: RULE 22.11 Stay (1) The filing of a Notice of Appeal does not stay the operation orenforcement of the order appealed from, unless otherwise providedby alegislative provision. (2) If an appeal has been started, or a party has applied for leave to appealagainst an order, any party may apply for an order stayingthe operation orenforcement of all, or part, of the order to which the appeal or applicationrelates. (3) An application for a stay must be filed in the Registry in which theorder under appeal was made and be heard by the Judge, FederalMagistrate orMagistrate who made the order under appeal. Themaking of an order for a stay is wholly discretionary and thecircumstances that would justify an order for a stay depend on the circumstancesof each case (Friscioni & Friscioni [2009]FamCAFC 43 at [54]). Theprinciples applicable to the granting of a stay are well settled. InAldridge & Keaton (Stay Appeal) [2009] FamCAFC 106 the Full Courtlisted the factors relevant to the exercise ofdiscretion:  the onus to establish a proper basis for thestay is on the applicant for the stay. However it is not necessary for theapplicantto demonstrate any special or exceptionalcircumstances;  a person who has obtained a judgment is entitled to the benefit ofthat judgment;  a person who has obtained a judgment is entitled to presume thejudgment is correct;  the mere filing of an appeal is insufficient to grant a stay;  the bona fides of the applicant;  a stay may be granted on terms that are fair to all parties - thismay involve a court weighing the balance of convenienceand the competing rightsof the parties;  a weighing of the risk that an appeal may be rendered nugatory if astay is not granted  this will be a substantialfactor in determiningwhether it will be appropriate to grant a stay;  some preliminary assessment of the strength of the proposed appeal whether the appellant has an arguable case;  the desirability of limiting the frequency of any change in achilds living arrangements;  the period of time in which the appeal can be heard and whetherexisting satisfactory arrangements may support the grantingof the stay for ashort period of time; and  the best interests of the child the subject of the proceedings are asignificant consideration. Submissions of the Husband Thehusband seeks to stay paragraph 22 to 28 of the orders made 18 July 2014,effectively the entirety of the financial orders. Paragraph 27 of the orders requires the husband to indemnify the wife withrespect to any taxation liabilities and other debts. It was the husbandssubmission that the taxation implications relating to the E Street property,which occurred in October2013, could not adequately be dealt with at are-hearing. Solicitorfor the husband, Mr Norrington, submits the husband has an arguable case onappeal. The numerous grounds of appeal covera variety of issues and includeboth the identification and distribution of assets and liabilities. Whileacknowledging the appealis directed primarily to the exercise of discretion,the husband submits the percentage adjustment in favour of the wife wassignificantly higher than usual. Thehusband denies any allegation of a stalling or delaying tactic and maintainsthat it is a bona fide appeal with merit. Solicitorfor the husband argued that the balance of convenience favoured the husband. The wife has had the benefit of free accommodationwith family membersthroughout the four year litigation and there is no pressing need to leave herparents home. In contrastthe husband says he does not have the samebenefit. He has a poor relationship with his father and isunable to simply move in with his family members. Solicitorfor the husband submitted that when weighing up the balance of convenienceregard should be had to the real implicationsfor the parties pending appeal. If the husband were to be required to move from the Suburb I property he wouldface significantdisruption to both his personal and professional life. Thehusband currently stores business and entertainment event equipment attheSuburb I property and says he would be unable to procure another dedicated spacewithout incurring expense. Thehusband has resided at the former matrimonial home since separation in June2010. It has always been his case that he soughtto retain the asset. Thehusband submitted that it was not until late in the litigation that the wifealtered her position and soughtto retain the Suburb I property. Thewifes interim application for sole occupation filed in February 2013 wasdismissed, noting that the wife had appropriatefinance to obtain accommodation.The husband submits that the wifes financial position has not altered, orif it had, herposition must have improved after having the benefit of livingwith her parents and receiving a generous income. Solicitorfor the husband argued the appeal would be rendered nugatory should the wife bepermitted to take up sole occupation ofthe former matrimonial home. Relying onthe decision of TWN & PAQ (2005) FLC 93-230; [2005] FamCAFC 677 thehusband submitted that the occupation of the asset will be a relevant factor indetermining the ultimate ownership of the property. Finally,the husband considered the desirability of limiting the frequency of change forthe children. It was submitted that theonly consistent place of residence hasbeen with their father at the former matrimonial home. Thewifes belated change of position, the ability of the husband to store hisbusiness equipment, the husbands abilityto carry on his employment fromthe property and the relevance of occupation to the appeal were all factors thehusband submittedshould weigh in his favour when considering a stay of ordersin relation to the former matrimonial home. Submissions of the Wife Solicitorfor the wife, Ms Farmer, submitted that the wife was entitled to the benefits ofthe judgment after four years of litigation. The wife denies she has received abenefit by living with her family during the litigation and submits that she hasnot receivedrental income, business income or any income from the entertainmentevents for the past four years while the husband had the benefitof the formermatrimonial home. Thewife does not seek to sell the former matrimonial home and as such the assetpool will be maintained pending appeal. Thewife questioned the need for the husband to remain at the former matrimonialhome for his employment. The wife referred to representationsmade in Courtduring the course of the trial that the husband was merely an employee and wasnot operating a business. The implicationwas that if he is merely an employeethen he should not be concerned with either the availability, or cost, ofstorage of the businessand entertainment event equipment. In any case the wifesubmits that the Business II premises are large enough to accommodate thehusbands equipment. Solicitorfor the wife expressed concerns that if a stay was granted whether the wifewould ever receive the benefits of the judgmentciting the husbandsconduct during proceedings and the ability of the husband to meet childmaintenance, school fees, medicalneeds and costs orders into the future if theappeal is unsuccessful. Thewife argued there could be little detriment to the children in the wifesoccupation of the former matrimonial home as thechildren spend week about timewith each parent. While the father may not be present in the Suburb I property,the mother wouldbe and the children will still retain some stability. Whenconsidering the merits of the appeal the solicitor for the wife noted thegrounds were repetitive and directed to discretionarymatters. Thewife submits the balance of convenience favours the wife, who after four yearsof litigation and judgment in her favour, shouldbe entitled to appropriateaccommodation. Consideration of Stay Application Aconsideration of the merits of an appeal has been described by the Full Court inTrahn & Long (No 2) [2008] FamCAFC 194 as some preliminaryassessment of the strength of the proposed appeal. It is not are-hearing of the merits of the applicants proposed orders but rather anexercise to establish whetherthe applicant has an arguable case on appeal. While the 27 grounds stated in the Notice of Appeal are repetitive, the groundsdisclosean arguable case. I am satisfied that there is an arguable case in theappeal. Thewife is undoubtedly entitled to the benefits of the judgment and to assume thatthe judgment is correct. However, this must beweighed against the risk thatthe appeal will be rendered nugatory if the stay is not granted. Duringthe course of submissions the husband referred to TWN & PAQ (Supra). In that case the Full Court upheld a decision of a trial judge who ordered thewife have sole occupancy citing the factthe wife had residency afterseparation, the husbands late change of position about seeking the homein specie and that therewere no features about the home unique to the husband(see at [133]). I note the Full Court also state that the wifesresidencywas not a determining factor, per se in the trialjudges reasoning. Theultimate ownership of the former matrimonial home is the subject of appeal. Iam satisfied that the husband has established a basis for the granting of a stayin respect of the transfer and occupation of theformer matrimonial home pendingdetermination of the appeal. Theterms of the stay however should be on conditions which take into account thecompeting rights of the parties. Thehusband also sought a stay of paragraph 27 of the order of 18 July 2014 whichprovided that he indemnify the wife with respectto all and any taxationliabilities or other debts in relation to himself personally and in relation toSelwood Pty Ltd and Q Trust. Itwas maintained on behalf of the husband that any appropriate adjustment of thisorder could not be adequately dealt with at anyre-hearing. Thehusband maintained at the trial that Selwood Pty Ltd owed approximately $120,442to the Australian Taxation Office. There waslittle other reliable evidence toindicate the extent of his personal liabilities or that of the trust. Consideringthe overall value of assets to be distributed the husband has failed toestablish any appropriate basis for a stay ofthis order. The husband hascontrolled the company and the trust. The wife has had little ability toprotect her financial positionin relation to these entities. Iam not satisfied that the grounds have been established upon which paragraph 27of the order should be stayed. Conditions of Stay Paragraph22 of the orders made 18 July 2014 provide that uponfourteen days notice the husband must transfer his right, titleand interest in the Suburb I, Suburb M and Suburb P properties to the wife. Thetransfer was to be conditional upon the husbandreceiving the sum of $591,338.33from the wife upon settlement. Thehusband now proposes the Suburb P property be sold and that he receive eitherthe balance of the proceeds of sale, less sale costs,or in the alternative, asum of $291,388.33 with the remainder to be deposited in the partiesjoint National Australia Bankmortgage account. The proposed variation makes noprovision for the wife to receive a portion of the proceeds. Thehusband arrives at this sum by reference to the wifes application forenforcement and costs. The proposed $291,388.33is the sum required to be paidto the husband pursuant to paragraph 22 of the orders made 18 July 2014, lessthe $300,000 the wifeseeks to have held in trust pending the determination ofthe costs of the trial. It is however the husbands primary applicationto receive the balance of the proceeds of sale of the Suburb P property. Byway of a letter dated 28 July 2014 the wife informed the husband of her electionto retain the former matrimonial home at SuburbI. Accordingly it is paragraph23, not paragraph 22 as suggested by the husbands application, which isthe relevant paragraph. Similarly, the wifes election renders paragraphs22, 24 and 25 of the orders irrelevant. Pursuantto paragraph 23(c) both the Suburb P and Suburb M properties are now to beplaced on the market for sale. At trial the SuburbP and Suburb M propertieswere valued at $500,000 each. Assuming the properties are each sold for$500,000 the husband would thenbe entitled under paragraph 23(d) to receive thesum of $591,338.33, less the reasonable costs of sale. Thehusband submits that without this distribution he will be unable to meet hisfuture legal costs. In an affidavit filed 5 September2014 the husbanddiscloses that he has spent in excess of $330,000 on legal costs and estimatesthe cost of his appeal to be in excessof $130,000. It was the husbandssubmission that he has exhausted all other avenues of funding his litigation. Thehusband argued that there would be no prejudice to the wife if the variation wasmade in the terms proposed by the husband asthe amount sought is considerablyless than he is due to receive under the orders of July 2014. Itwas the husbands submission that notwithstanding he seeks a stay of allproperty orders, the Court has the power to makethe adjustment sought pursuantto s 117(2) or alternatively, s 80(1)(h) of the Act. Solicitor for the wifehowever, expressed concern over the Courts power to makethe orderssought by the husband under s 80. Section80(1)(h) provides that in exercising its powers under this Part, the Court maydo any or all of the following: (h) make a permanent order, an order pendingthe disposal of proceedingsor an order for a fixed term or for a life or during jointlives or untilfurther order; (i) impose terms and conditions; ... (k) make any other order (whether or not of the same nature as thosementioned in the preceding paragraphs of this section), whichit thinks it isnecessary to make to do justice; and (l) subject to thisAct and the applicableRules of Court, make an order under this Part at any time before or afterthe making ofa decreeunder another Part. Section80 is not an independent source of power. The availability of s 80 depends uponthe Court exercising power under Part VIII of the Act. The Court must alsobe satisfied that the proceedings are proceedings truly being of thatcharacter namely, proceedings under Part VIII (Yunghanns and Ors& Yunghanns and Ors [1999] FamCA 64; (1999) FLC 92-836 at [118]). Section80 may be exercised in relation to existing or previousorders for property settlement (see In the Marriage of Davidson (1994) 17Fam LR 656 at 667). The application before me is a stay of final orders made inthe proceedings under Part VIII of the Act. Alternatively,solicitor for the husband submitted the Court had power under s 117 toorder that assets be sold and the proceeds applied to fund litigation. Section117(1) of the Act provides that subject to subsection (2), and othersubsections not relevant to the current application, each party toproceedings under this Act shall bear his or her own costs. Section117(2) of the Act provides that if, in proceedings under the Act the courtis of opinion that there are circumstances that justify it in doingso, it may make such order as to costs whether by way ofinterlocutory order or otherwise, as it considers just. Insupport of his application the husband relied on Strahan & Strahan(Appeal Costs) [2009] FamCAFC 225 for the authority that cost orders may bemade in respect of both past and future legal expenses. Thewife opposes the husbands application to vary the orders and submits thatif the husband complied with the orders he wouldreceive $591,338.33, an amountthat would ensure the husband could meet both his outstanding and future legalexpenses. Iam satisfied that the Family Court of Australia has jurisdiction as a superiorcourt of record to vary the orders to impose conditionson the stay pending theappeal. Anyorders should, as far as possible, be fair to both parties and protect theoverall situation pending the appeal determination. Theoriginal orders provided for the husband to receive significant assets and fundswhich would ordinarily provide substantial securityand resources for thehusbands costs of appeal. Theconditions which will be imposed as part of the stay order will providepreliminary interim distribution of some of the proceedsof sale of theproperties at L Street and N Street. The balance can be retained in a manner toprotect the interests of both parties. Whilstthe Court has the power to make an order pursuant to s 117 in relation to thehusbands anticipated costs of the appeal, the husband has not establishedthat it is just and equitableto make any order in excess of the ordersproviding for the distribution of some of the proceeds of sale and theinvestment of thebalance of the monies. Forthe above reasons I make the orders commencing on page 2 of thejudgment. I certify that the preceding sixty-eight (68)paragraphs are a true copy of the reasons for judgment of the Honourable JusticeDawedelivered on 14 October 2014. Associate: Date: 14 October 2014 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/867.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            