FAMILY LAW  CHILDREN  INTERIM ORDERS Time that children will spend with each parent  Children returnedto fathers care after the making of a publication order and the executionof a recovery order in circumstances where the motherdisregarded Court ordersand took the children  Mother and mothers family to spendsupervised time with the childrento prevent the children being removed againpending the obtaining of further evidence from the mother about thecircumstances inwhich she removed the children and about issues of familyviolence and the capacity of both parents to fulfil their obligations asparents Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) APPLICANT: Mr Cody RESPONDENT: Ms Kilroy INTERVENOR: Mrs J Kilroy INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: Ms Fox for Ms Osmond FILENUMBER: CAF 605 of 2006 DATE DELIVERED: 22 October 2007 PLACE DELIVERED: Canberra PLACE HEARD: Canberra JUDGMENT OF: Faulks DCJ HEARING DATE: 22 October 2007 REPRESENTATION SOLICITOR FOR THEAPPLICANT: Ms Burgess COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENT: Mr Arthur SOLICITOR FOR THE INTERVENOR: Mr Ridge ORDERS (1) Thechildren E, born on ... February 2003, and C, born on ... November 2004, willlive with their father who will have primaryparental responsibility for thechildren. Such care and responsibility will be exercised in consultation withthe childrensmother. (2) The children will spend such time with their mother and other relativesincluding their maternal grandmother and their stepsisteras may be reasonablyorganised with Anglicare ... on the basis that that may occur as frequently asevery day if such is able tobe arranged. (3) The mother, the father, the children and the maternal grandmother willattend upon the Family Consultant, Ms L, at such timeor times as she willnominate for the purposes of enabling her to prepare a family report. (4) The Independent Childrens Lawyer have leave to issue subpoenas to theQueensland Department of Child Safety and the QueenslandPolice in relation tothe incidents surrounding and of the execution of the recovery order, and to theQueensland Police in relationto the criminal record of Mr V. (5) The proceedings be adjourned to 30 November 2007 at 10:00 am unless theparties are earlier notified because of the fact thatMs L may not be able toprepare the Family Report by that time. (6) The mother have liberty to file an affidavit in which she sets out thecircumstances relating to, or the circumstances givingrise to, her departurefrom the NSW Southern Tablelands area and her failure thereafter to comply withthe orders made by FederalMagistrate Mowbray on 23 August 2006. That materialwill also give indications on what she did during her absence from the NSWSouthernTablelands area and how she looked after the children during thatperiod. (7) The mother can also set out a Minute of the Orders she proposes on a formalbasis finally and will complete a questionnaire toallow the process of the LessAdversarial Trial to progress. (8) The maternal grandmother who has leave to intervene in these proceedingswill also complete a questionnaire as soon as possibleand file and serve copyof it on the other parties involved in the proceedings. IT IS NOTED that publication of this judgment under thepseudonym Cody & Kilroy is approved pursuant to s 121(9)(g) of theFamily Law Act 1975 (Cth) FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT CANBERRA FILE NUMBER: CAF605 of 2006 MR CODY Applicant And MS KILROY Respondent And MRS J KILROY Intervenor REASONS FOR JUDGMENT Inthis matter I will make orders of a similar sort to those suggested by theIndependent Childrens Lawyer and I will brieflygive my reasons for doingso. In coming to the conclusions I do I take account of the Principles andObjects set out in s 60B of the Family Law Act 1975 (theAct) and in particular as a backdrop to my decision making the fact thatit is important that the children havea meaningful involvement with each oftheir parents and that they be protected in effect from physical violence andotherwise fromthe possibilities of any intervention by other parent or by anyother third person. Anydetermination I make must in accordance with the provisions of 60CA be made inthe best interests of the children as the paramountconsideration. I am alsoobliged in coming to that conclusion to take account of the primaryconsiderations set out under s 60CC which include the benefit to the children ofhaving a meaningful relationship with each of their parents and the need toprotectthem from physical or psychological harm. Inthese circumstances, looking at those primary considerations at this point itseems difficult to contemplate that in circumstanceswhere there has been aflight with the children in what would appear at this point to be fairly blatantdisregard of Court ordersthat there would not be at least a substantial riskoccasioned to the children and hence their relationship with their father ifIwere to put them in a situation where they might again be absconded with bytheir mother. Iam not suggesting that the children, on the evidence before me at the moment,would be in any physical or psychological harm inbeing with their mother,although I note that the report which became part of the evidence in theseproceedings by the police raisessome questions about those matters. Thoseare matters which ought to be the subject of a more detailed consideration withthe assistance of Ms L, the Family Consultant. The matters which I take intoaccount in determining the childrens best interests include the likelyeffect that the arrangementswould have on the childrens having beingseparated from their mother. I suspect that this would be a matter of concern,givenwhat has happened and it would be a matter of great regret to me that thisshould be so. It is also a matter of regret to me thatin the circumstances ofthis matter I would have to, in effect, expose the children to that possibilitybecause of what I regardas being the effect of the mothers disregardpreviously of the Court orders. Therewill be an opportunity for the children to spend time with their mother andtheir grandmother on a regular basis in circumstanceswhere there will be norisk for them in being taken away again, and that I take into account andbalanced with my concerns aboutthe effect on the children of their separationfrom the full-time care of their mother. Atthis point I am unable to assess with any degree of accuracy the capacity thateither of the parents has properly to provide forthe needs of the childrenincluding their emotional and intellectual needs. In this regard I note that inthe past it has been assertedthat the father might not be able to do thosethings and I note also that the childrens mother, in apparent disregardfortheir emotional needs, had removed them from the area in which they hadgrown up and then, adapting Mr Ridges words, on whichthey hadbecome well settled before her departure in the NSW Southern Tablelands area,with their mother, grandmother and their stepsister. Iam concerned about the attitude of the mother to her responsibilities as aparent. I would have to say on the evidence at presentavailable to me thefather has demonstrated a higher level of responsibility in more recent timesthan has the mother. That is amatter which will not necessarily reflect infinal orders but a matter I have to take into account now. Ihave had some evidence about family violence involving the children, none ofwhich is in a form which helps me particularly, partof it involves the incidentaround which the children were recovered, part of it involved the allegation ofthe mother about theincidents that have occurred between her and thechildrens father in the past. None of the matters at this point issufficientlyadvanced in the presentation of evidence before me to enable me tomake a firm conclusion about it one way or the other. Ihave also to take account under s 61DA as to whether I should even at this pointmake an order requiring that the parents share parental responsibility for thechildrenequally. In my opinion pending a further determination where thechildren ought principally to live and I note the father in theend wants thechildren to spend time with each of the parents, substantial time with each ofthe parents which would, in itself ordinarilyinvolve the making of an order forjoint parental responsibility. In the meantime until I can move towards thatposition more permanentlyit seems to me that the father should have parentalresponsibility for the children, not to be exercised, I might add, in thismatterwithout some consultation with the childrens mother but he shouldhave that primary responsibility. Sucha determination removes from me the obligation under the presumption containedin s 61DA from considering whether the children should live equally with each oftheir parents or spend substantial and significant time witheach of theirparents. In any event, for the reasons I have outlined in my opinion,especially as this is an interim matter I wouldnot ordinarily make an order ofthat sort at this point in the circumstances of this matter. Accordingly,the orders that I make on an interim basis, pending further determination ofthis matter after the family report hasbeen prepared are as follows. Iwill give you an opportunity in a moment to put to me what other evidence youmight want to put before the Court on the next occasion. I do not want topreclude your client have having her side of the story told. Equally I do notwant to have vast swathes of affidavitsabout the past in circumstances whereuntil we have seen what the Family Report says and we can then determine what iscrucial forthe future consideration. I certify that the preceding thirteen (13) paragraphs are a truecopy of the reasons for judgment of the Honourable Deputy Chief JusticeFaulks Associate Date: 28 November 2007 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2007/1387.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              