FAMILY LAW  CHILDREN Interim Orders  where mother filed a fresh initiating application mother seeksorders that would enable her to change a childsschooling and suspend time between the father and the children  thechildren reluctant to spend time with the father  where the parents areunable to cooperate  not in the best interestsof the children for theparents to have equal shared parental responsibility  orders made for themother to have sole parentalresponsibility during period of adjournment orders made for the appointment of an Independent Childrens Lawyer andarequest for the Minister to intervene. Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) s60CC Goode & Goode (2006) FLC 93-286 APPLICANT: Ms Lindberg RESPONDENT: Mr Hillman FILENUMBER: ADC 1221 of 2007 DATE DELIVERED: 26 September 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Adelaide PLACE HEARD: JUDGMENT OF: Dawe J HEARING DATE: 26 September 2014 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: n/a SOLICITOR FOR THE APPLICANT: In Person COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENT: n/a SOLICITOR FOR THE RESPONDENT: In Person ORDERS Thematter is further adjourned to 14 November 2014 at 9.15 am before the HonourableJustice Dawe. Duringthe period of the adjournment: 2.1 the previous parenting orders made on 28 November 2013 in relation to thechildren D and B (the children) are suspended; 2.2 the mother has the sole parental responsibility for the children; 2.3 the children live with the mother and spend no time with the father SAVEAND EXCEPT such time as the parties agree upon in writing. Themother has permission to enrol the child D at C School. Thefather has leave to amend the Response to the Initiating Application PROVIDEDTHAT any amendment is filed and serve within twenty-eight[28] days fromtoday. Pursuantto Section 68L of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) THAT the childrenD born on ... 1998 and B born on ... 2003 be independentlyrepresented and that such representation be arranged by the Legal ServiceCommission of South AustraliaUPON NOTING it is requested that Ms Rebecca Reedbe re-appointed if available AND that to expedite the appointment of theIndependentChildrens Lawyer within seven (7) days of the date hereofeach party cause to be furnished to the said Commission a copy ofall documentsfiled in the Family Court since the discharge of the IndependentChildrens Lawyer in November 2013. Leaveis granted to the Independent Childrens Lawyer to issue subpoenas fordocuments to: (a) the Department for Education and Child Development Families SA; (b) South Australian Education Department; (c) South Australian Police Department; (d) any school attended by the children or to be attended by the children; and (e) the Children and Adolescent Mental Health Service (CAMHS). Pursuantto Section 91B of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) THAT the Courtrequests the Minister for the Department for Education and Child Development -Families SA be invited to intervenein these proceedings and if the Ministerdetermines not to intervene in these proceedings it is requested that theMinister senda representative to the Court on the adjourned date to explain theMinisters position. Pursuantto s69ZW the Court requests that the Department for Education and ChildDevelopment - Families SA provide a report specifically dealing withthe childprotection and welfare issues and the general circumstances concerning thechildren D born on ... 1998 and B born on ... 2003 including butnot limited to any suspected or alleged child abuse issues and mental healthissues and that suchreport be filed at this Court by no later than 4.00 pm on7 November 2014 UPON NOTING that in the event that Families SA intend torely upon any report prepared by Child Protection Services (CPS)that they also at that time provide a copy of suchCPS Report and that reportand that of the Minister be provided forthwith to each of the parties and theIndependent ChildrensLawyer (yet to be appointed). Forthe purposes of the requests pursuant to paragraphs 7 and 8 hereof the CourtRegistry is directed to supply the Minister copiesof the documents filed by theparties since November 2013. Pursuantto s 65DA(2) and s 62B, the particulars of the obligations these orders createand the particulars of the consequences that may follow if a person contravenesthese orders and details of who can assist parties adjust to and comply with anorder are set out in the Fact Sheet attached heretoand these particulars areincluded in these orders. IT IS NOTED that publication of this judgment by this Court underthe pseudonym Lindberg & Hillman has been approved by the ChiefJustice pursuant to s 121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT ADELAIDE FILE NUMBER:ADC 1221 of 2007 Ms Lindberg Applicant And Mr Hillman Respondent EX TEMORE REASONS FOR JUDGMENT Iwill deal first of all with the Response filed by the father to the InitiatingApplications. The orders sought in both, being finalorders and interim orders,were drafted by him without any legal assistance. Many of them are not ordersthat this Court would makeor has jurisdiction to make. Underthe interim orders sought he asked for the child, D, to be represented by aChildrens Lawyer. The parties are both proposingthat both children havean Independent Childrens Lawyer appointed and I propose to make thatorder. Underthe interim orders paragraphs 2, 3, 4 and 5 are not orders of the sort that thisCourt would normally make. Basically, however,it appears to be suggested thatthe Court decide on the mothers ability to look after the childrenIn lieu of non-compliance with the Court orders. Itis clear that the children have been in the care of the mother since lateFebruary 2014 and no action was taken in this Court orany other Court withFamily Law jurisdiction to amend the existing orders until the mother broughtproceedings in August 2014 andthe father subsequently responded. Inthe information that is before the Court the children have been in the care ofthe mother and have very little or none at all,time with the father face toface and only one telephone call I am told from the child, D, to thefather. Thequestion of the schooling is mentioned in paragraph 4 of the husbandsresponse and that is also a matter which is dealtwith in the mothersapplication. Paragraph5 is: That the orders of 28 November be modified in light of themothers behaviour. Itdoes not, however, set out how those orders should be modified and what ordersare sought. The final orders sought in that applicationare again orders of thesort that are not normally made but I am interpreting some of them to be orderswhich oppose the orders soughtby the mother. In particular, paragraph 1 of thefinal orders sought is that the existing orders of 28 November 2013 beupheld. Thefather asks for orders that the mother be held accountable and that thewithdrawal of the child, D, from school be consideredas neglect of herparenting. All of these orders sought in the Response cannot be interpreted ascontravention applications. Afinding of neglect would, of course, be a factorwhich will be taking into account when altering any of the orders currently inexistencein relation to the children. Thefather also asks that the mothers actions in future be monitoredfor the next two years by a childrens advocate by Courtorder. This Court does not have facilities to monitor the parentingor any roles of the children. It is a superior Court of record anddoes nothave facilities to monitor the behaviour of parents. Thefinal order sought is leave to prepare the costs and losses due to themothers actions for non-compliance. The parties have beenunrepresented for a considerable period of time since November 2013 when finalorders were made. Therefore I am unable to understand what type of order thisCourt could make in relation to that paragraph. Ithen turn to the orders which are sought in the Initiating Application and inparticular, the orders that are sought by way of interimorders today. Themother seeks orders that the existing orders regarding the children, B and D, bedischarged, that she be allowedto change the child Ds school from ESchool to C School, that the father have no contact with the childrenor the mother or her husband, [Mr Lindberg] and that the applicationbe heard urgently. Themother has made it clear from the bar table that she also seeks an order thatprovides for her to have parental responsibilityfor the children during theperiod of the adjournment. Thefather has indicated that he is concerned about the health and in particular,the psychiatric and mental health of the childrenand in particular D, who hasapparently referred to attempting to commit suicide. He is in a position wherehe accepts that it isdifficult for him to enforce the existing Court orders ifthe children are opposed to that and opposed to residing with him. Hehas referred to his attitude towards these ongoing proceedings and from the bartable has considered that he cannot, change the girls andthey have been, poisoned by the mother. They are hisallegations. He also said from the bar table that it is easier justto look away. Hehas referred in his submissions to the altercations he has had with the schoolwhich the children did attend and where B stillattends. He has also confirmedthat the police have commenced prosecution of charges against him, being twocharges of aggravatedassault. Both matters apparently were heard in theMagistrates Court for mention in late August 2014. The father was unable togive a further date but was expecting it to be towards the end of October 2014. It is not clear, however, and the Court does nothave information as to whetherthat is another mention date or whether there will be a trial at that time. Iunderstand the fatheris not pleading guilty to aggravated assault of hisdaughters. Itis necessary for me to consider, even on an interim basis, what is in the bestinterests of the children in accordance with theauthority of Goode &Goode (2006) FLC 93-286 and take into account the provisions of theFamily Law Act 1975 (Cth) (the Act) Part VII whichdeals with childrens matters. Thebest interests of the children and the factors to be taken into account are setout clearly in that part of the Act. The emphasisis upon the best interests ofthe children, including that the children have the benefit of a meaningfulrelationship with both oftheir parents and that the children are protected fromphysical or psychological harm or abuse. Theproceedings having been resumed this year would fall within the category whichemphasises, as the primary concern, the need toprotect the children. Theprovisions of the Act require me to consider whether it is in thechildrens best interests forthere to be joint parental responsibilityand if joint parental responsibility applies then consideration be given to thechildrenspending equal or shared or significant time with each of thechildrens parents. Thematerial before the Court, the fresh Initiating Application and the history ofthe matter, is a clear indication that it is notin the best interests of thesechildren that their parents have shared parental responsibility due to theabsolute inability of anycooperation between the parents to decide issues whichwould promote the childrens best interests. Iam therefore satisfied on an interim basis that during the period of theadjournment the mother have sole parental responsibility. Ialso have to consider the factors which relate to the best interests of thechildren as set out in section 60CC. Theadditional considerations include the views expressed by the children and thenature of the relationship between the childrenand each of the childrensparents. I take into account the acknowledgment by the father that the childrenare not currentlyexpressing any desire to spend any time with him. Certainly,it appears from the information before the Court that the childrencurrentlywish to remain living with the mother. Whether that is because of themothers attitude and influence upon the childrenis not a matter I candetermine on an interim basis. Thedifficulty in considering other factors such as the willingness and the abilityof the childrens parents to facilitateand encourage a close relationshipwith the other parent is that it seems clear that there have been difficultiesfor many many yearsabout the capacity of both parents to work together andfoster a relationship with the other parent. Thelikely effect of any change upon the children. On this interim basis it isdifficult to see how there could be a change on aninterim basis pending thedetermination of the factors and the reports which I am proposing to order. Itake into account the other factors and in particular the maturity and age ofthe child D, and the issues concerning family violencewhich are alleged but areyet to be determined, with the assault charges outstanding where the father hasbeen charged with aggravatedassault of each of the children. Thereare serious issues to be determined. Both parties are supporting theappointment of the Independent Childrens Lawyerfor both children and, ifpossible, that be Ms Reed who has in the past acted as the IndependentChildrens Lawyer. I alsopropose to make orders requesting the Ministerto intervene in these proceedings. There are serious concerns about the welfareofthe children. It would appear that there have been some notifications to theMinister concerning the welfare of the children andthe participation of theMinister in these proceedings would be of assistance. Iwill also request that the Families SA prepare a report dealing with the childprotection and welfare issues in relation to bothchildren as they have arisensince the orders were made in November 2013. For the purposes of theMinisters intervention,the Court will supply the Minister with copies ofthe documents which have been filed in this Court since November 2013. Iam also proposing to give the Independent Childrens Lawyer leave to issuesubpoenas to the various entities to ensure thatthe Court has available to itupdated information concerning the children. The subpoenas could be limited toissues which have arisensince the final orders were made in November 2013. That would then avoid the departments having to supply material which is notdirectly relevant to these current proceedings. Theother significant factor which is necessary to determine is whether the child Dshould continue to be enrolled at E School orwhether the mother should havepermission to enrol D in C School which is the school which the mother hasindicated is the schoolwhich D wishes to attend. Itwould appear from the affidavit material that D has not attended any school for10 weeks and is refusing to attend E School. Thefather opposes the enrolmentof the child in C School indicating that if she does not wish to attend E Schoolthey would providesome assistance for her to be homeschooled. Itake into account the information before the Court in the affidavit material andthat provided by the father from the bar tableabout ongoing difficult dealingswith the former headmaster of E School. I also take into account in relation tothe schooling achild Ds age, the need for her to recommence school andthe fact that if it transpires that there is some difficulty in thechildattending C School or some benefit to the child in her resuming at E School,then those matters can be dealt with on a finalbasis after the assistance theCourt has from the Independent Childrens Lawyer and the variousreports. Iconsider however, even on an interim basis, that it is in the best interests ofthe child D, that the mother be given permissionto enrol her in C School sothat D can resume some sort of education as quickly as possible. I thereforepropose to make those orders. Ordersmade. Iam being handed a letter from Relationships Australia signed[L] dated 7 July 2014 and enclosing a Section 60Icertificate. It says: I, [L], [the father] did not attendfamily dispute with me and the other party or parties of the proceedings, butthe personsfailure to do so was due to the refusal or failure of theother party or parties to the proceedings to attend. Ithas what appears to be the same signature as the letter and is, again, dated 7July 2014. Ihave taken that into account. It is not a significant factor to change any ofthe orders that I have made. It is a part explanationfor no action being takenby the father from late February 2014 until the mother commenced the proceedingsAugust 2014. It is astep that he did take in July 2014 to attempt to resolvethe issues. I also take into account that the mother has said from thebartable that she failed to participate because she anticipated the criminalproceedings. Iam not making any findings in relation to those matters. I consider the bestinterests of the children to be the paramount considerationon an interim basis.I will not change the orders I have just made. Thematter stands adjourned to come back before me on 14 November at 9.15 am. That is a mention date. Onthe next occasion it will be a 9.15 am matter prior to a trial at 10oclock in another matter. I certify that the preceding forty (40) paragraphs are a truecopy of the reasons for judgment of the Honourable Justice Dawe deliveredon 26September 2014 Associate: Date: 9 October 2014 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/853.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         