FAMILY LAW  ORDERS ENFORCEMENT OF ORDERS  Warrant for seizure and sale of property Application by wifefor enforcement of orders where husband has failedto comply with final orders FAMILY LAW  PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE STAY APPLICATION  Application by husband for a stay of orderspending appealagainst substantive orders  Stay granted in part Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) s 112AA Jackson & Balen [2009]FamCAFC131 APPLICANT: Ms Masoud RESPONDENT: Mr Masoud FILENUMBER: SYC 2198 of 2012 DATE DELIVERED: 28 October 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Hobart PLACE HEARD: Sydney JUDGMENT OF: Benjamin J HEARING DATE: 4 September 2014 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: Mr Gould SOLICITOR FOR THE APPLICANT: Michael Todd of Watts McCray Lawyers COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENT: Mr Lloyd SC SOLICITOR FOR THE RESPONDENT: Paul Doolan and Shannon Rogers of BarkusDoolan ORDERS Theenforcement warrant sought by the wife (as amended in the form of orderstendered by the wife on 4 September 2014 ExhibitW3) and thereview in respect of the determination made by Registrar Cameron on 10 July 2014be stood over for directionshearing on Monday 13 July 2015 at 11.30am before aregistrar of the Family Court, Sydney or for such longer or shorter period asisdetermined by a judge exercising jurisdiction under the Family Law Act1975 (Cth) before July 2015. Theparties be given liberty to apply to Benjamin J or if he is not reasonablyavailable another judge of the Court on the givingof seven (7) days notice tothe other party and to the Court in relation to the enforcement warrant, suchleave to apply until 31July 2015. Theoperation of order 45 made by the Honourable Justice Fowler on 4 October 2013 bestayed pending the determination of the appealcommenced by the husband inNovember 2013. Conditionalupon:- thehusband paying to the wife the sum of $2,666 per month by way of partialcompliance with the Spousal Maintenance Order (order53); and suchpartial payment to operate in respect of the husbands spousal maintenanceliability pursuant to that Order for the paymentsdue on and after 4 August2014, until the appeal has been determined; and thepartial payments due on 4 August 2014 and 4 September 2014 are to be paid to thewife on or before 4 October 2014; and thepartial payments due on the 4th of each month thereafter are to bepaid to the wife on that day, including the October 2015 partial payment due on4 October 2014,and the remainder of the operation oforder 53 (as has not already been wholly or partially complied with) made by theHonourable JusticeFowler on 4 October 2013 be stayed pending the determinationof the husbands appeal. Theapplication of the husband to stay order 54 (Child Support) of the orders madeby the Honourable Justice Fowler on 4 October 2013is dismissed. Thestay orders are further conditional upon the husband paying the sum of $10,000to School A within fourteen (14) days from thedate of this order. Thecosts of both parties are reserved and leave is given to either party to applyon seven (7) days notice to the other party andto the Court for the listing ofthe costs applications; such leave to operate until twenty eight (28) days afterthe determinationof the appeal in respect of the substantive Orders made 4October 2013. ITIS DIRECTED that if the husband continues to assert that this Court at firstinstance has jurisdiction and power to make Orders restraining thewife byinjunction from denigrating the husband or his healthcare practice, EPractice, to any professional or doctorthat is currently or has in thepast been a referrer to the husband or his healthcare practice EPractice and seeksto pursue that application then he file and serve anysuch initiating application within fourteen (14) days from the date of thisorder. IT IS CERTIFIED Pursuantto Rule 19.50 of the Family Law Rules 2004 (Cth) it was reasonable to engagesenior counsel and counsel to attend. IT IS NOTED that publication of this judgment by this Court underthe pseudonym Masoud & Masoud (Stay Application) has been approved bythe Chief Justice pursuant to s 121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act 1975(Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT SYDNEY FILE NUMBER:SYC 2198 of 2012 Ms Masoud Applicant And Mr Masoud Respondent REASONS FOR JUDGMENT Introduction MsMasoud (the wife) and Mr Masoud (the husband) areengaged in parenting and property litigation in theFamily Court under theprovisions of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) (theAct). Theproceedings between the husband and wife were heard at first instance by FowlerJ over seven days in July 2013. Reasons weredelivered and orders were made on4 October 2013 (in these reasons they will be referred to as theOrders). FowlerJ said of the parties and theirlitigation:-[1] Marriagebreakdown and defended litigation rarely, it is said, brings out the best inpeople. This case is not a rare exception. Theproceedings are ones in which some of the disclosed conduct of each of theparents at the time of and subsequent to their separationbrings little in theway of credit to either of them and, at times, demonstrates parenting skills andgeneral empathy and sensitivitywhich at best were infantile and at worst of alevel that one would ordinarily expect of a house brick. HisHonour seemingly used irony and insult to goad the parties to moderate theirbehaviour, that approach did not work. Theproceedings before me initially arose out of an endeavour by the wife to havethe husband comply with an undertaking referredto in the Orders at notation 58.The undertaking was thought to impose a liability upon the husband to payprivate school tuitionfees for the younger two children of the partiesmarriage. The wife claims that the husband has an actionable liability andassuch she was entitled to recover an amount of$20,461.96.[2] Thecosts disclosure letter on behalf of thewife[3] discloses that she hadexpended or incurred legal costs in this interlocutory proceeding to the extentof some $47,679. Thecosts letter provided by thehusband[4] shows his costs on thehearing before me on 4 September 2014 (excluding preparation of affidavits,preparation etc, just for theday) at about $12,000. Thehusband has incurred or paid legal costs and disbursements to date in theseproceedings of about $690,000. Thehusband is not content with some aspects of the Orders and has lodged an appeal.That appeal has yet to be heard. The groundsof appeal are expanding and a copyof further amended grounds of appeal were put in evidence before me.[5] Theamount of legal costs involved in the skirmish before me is likelyto have met the whole of the childrensschool fees for the current year.These interlocutory proceedings have expanded and eaten the funds that theparties may have otherwisespent on their childrens education. It may bethat Fowler J did not miss the mark with his comments about the partiesappetite for conflict with each other. Theproceedings before me are in the nature of the wifes enforcement of partof the Orders, enforcement of an undertaking asan order and review of adecision made by a Registrar of this Court. The husband opposes the orderssought by the wife. He nowrequests for a stay of some of the Orders made byFowler J and seeks orders to enjoin the wife. Both parties seek orders for legalcosts against the other. FowlerJ is now happily ensconced in the quiet comfort of his retirement and as suchcannot hear the stay application, that task fellto be determined by me. Logically,the husbands stay application needs to be determined before thewifes enforcement application (which itselfis a review of a decision bya Registrar of this Court). In addition, and as I earlier said, the husband inhis response sought ordersto enjoin the wife from denigrating him or his namedhealthcare practice to any professional or doctor that has been a referrer tothe healthcare practice and further the husband sought orders to enjoin the wifefrom discussing with their children mattersarising from and relating tothe payment of their school fees. Curiously, this application is made incircumstances wherethere is evidence (albeit untested) from the school that thesubject children are or were to be expelled for non-payment of theirschoolfees. This is also where the husband claims, in his alleged currentcircumstances, that he is unable to meet the financialobligations implicit fromthe face of the Orders or undertaking. If the injunction was granted (and givenan exchange between theBench and senior counsel for the husband, that will notoccur at this time) and if the evidence from the school is sound, one wonderswhat was to be said by the wife to the children as they were removed from theirerstwhile school. Allof these interlocutory issues are occurring in the shadow of the Orders ofFowler J and the appeals against them. This includesthe newly mintedfurther amended grounds of appeal produced to the wife during thehearing of this application. Thereis also an issue as to whether the undertaking recorded as a notation in theOrders is or is not an undertaking. There may bean issue of law as to whetherthis undertaking is deemed an order under the Act in terms of enforcement. Iam to consider a stay of part of the Orders and, if I determine not to grant thestay I am to determine whether to release the husbandfrom the undertaking (thathe will argue to the Full Court was not an undertaking) and then I may need toconsider if I should enforcethe orders and/or the undertaking (if it is anundertaking and if it can be treated as an order). Easypeasy. Inthinking through the various machinations involved in the proceeding before me,I drifted into a state of wonder as to whetherI have fallen down thatapocryphal rabbit hole and emerged in the fantasy world created by Lewis Carollin his story of AlicesAdventures in Wonderland. Not only was I in thatworld, but curiously, I believed I understood that world of wonder, but Idigress. Whetherthey have previously done so or not, the legal practitioners representing thehusband and the wife need to step forward andoffer non-confrontationalsolutions to their respective clients. The parties themselves should stop, takea deep breath, look around,think and find better ways to vent the anger,bitterness and aggression they may have for each other and consider thedevastatingimpact that these proceedings may be having on their children andthe devastating impact on the parties economic circumstances. On4 July 2014 the wife had requested the issue of an enforcement warrant whichapplication was then supported by her affidavit, filedthe same day. ARegistrar of the Family Court made enquiries of the solicitor of the wife byemail dated 7 July 2014[6] and aresponse was provided to that request. In her enforcement warrant the wifesought the sale of motor bikes, furniture and furnishingsowned by thehusband. On10 July 2014 a Registrar of the Family Court made chambers orders declining toissue the enforcement warrant. Thewife pursues the enforcement of the undertaking, arrears of child support andspouse maintenance. The wife now says that sheclaims an enforcement warrantfor an increased sum of $65,826.77.[7]The review of the Registrars decision and the amended orders arecontained, in general form, in her application in a casefiled 19 July 2014. Inher application, the wife, by way of alternative, sought relief in the form ofan application for an orderto be made by the Court in terms of thehusbands undertaking (that part of the application is probably ultravires the powerof this First Instance Court the substantive proceedings havingbeen finally determined by the Orders). Finally, the wife soughtthe provisionof information from the husband and costs. Thehusband filed a response on 22 August 2014 seeking orders for the dismissal ofthe wifes applications, release from theundertaking (which he claimedwas not an enforceable undertaking), a stay of a number of the Orders and thatthe wifes interlocutoryapplication be dismissed. In the alternative thehusband sought to be released from the undertaking. In addition he soughtordersby way of injunction against the wife, as set out earlier and orders forcosts. The orders and notations in issue Inthe Orders there are a number of orders and an undertaking to which I have beenspecifically referred. Thehusband seeks an order for stay of order 45 of the Orders. Given the discussionset out in these reasons, that application wassuccessful. Order 45provides:- Followingcompliance by the wife with Orders 42 and 43 above, the husband shall pay to thewife the sum of $798,370, with such sumto be paid in instalments and pursuantto the following timeframe: $266,124is to be paid exactly 12 months from the date of the later of the two transfersreferred to in Orders 42 and 43 above $266,123is to be paid exactly 12 months from the date of the payment made pursuant toOrder 45(a) above and $266,123is to be paid exactly 12 months from the date of the payment made pursuant toOrder 45(b) above. Thehusband seeks an order for stay of orders 53 and 54 relating to spousemaintenance and child support, respectively. Given thediscussion set out inthese reasons the application for a stay of the maintenance order was partlysuccessful and conditions wereimposed and the application for a stay inrelation to the departure order was unsuccessful. Orders 53 and 54 provide:- Thehusband shall pay to the wife by way of spouse maintenance the sum of $4,333 permonth paid monthly in advance, with the firstpayment to be made within sevendays from the date of these Orders. Each payment thereafter is to be made on thesame calendar dayin each month for a period of 24 months following the firstpayment. Byway of child support departure and pursuant to section 117 of the ChildSupport (Assessment) Act 1989 (Cth) (the Assessment Act), thehusband shall pay to the wife periodic child support for the children [D] and[G] inthe sum of $1,300 per week in total until the happening of a terminatingevent in accordance with section 12 of the Assessment Actor until further orderof the Court. Thereare mechanical orders in relation to orders 54 being for CPI increases andstarting dates. Given that I have declined to staythe departure order, thereis no need to stay orders 55, 56 and 57 of the Orders. Initem 58 of the Orders the Court noted what it described as an undertaking(the undertaking) of the husband. Thehusband asserted that thealleged offer of the undertaking was conditional and therefore it was not openfor the First Instance Courtto assert that he was bound by it. The undertakingis noted as:- TheCourt notes the undertaking of the husband to pay to the wife, in addition toperiodic child support with respect to [D] and [G],the following expenses withrespect to [D], [G] and [J]: (a) as and whenthey fall due, the tuition fees associated with the childrens schooling(with respect to [D] and [G], suchschooling is presently at [School A] and withrespect to [J], such schooling is at [School Y]), including all school fees andassociatedcosts (excluding any optional excursion overseas or costing more than$100, unless agreed by the husband in writing) (b) allinstalments necessary to maintain private health insurance for the children atthe current level of cover (c) the costsof all agreed orthodontic treatment, agreed hospital, agreed optical, agreedphysiotherapy, agreed podiatry or agreedother medical specialist fees orexpenses in respect of the children not able to be recovered from private healthinsurance and (d) the costsof the children's extra-curricular activities where the children's participationis agreed by the husband in writingprior to the children commencing theactivity. Thatundertaking provided that the husband pays the School A fees which if bindingwould include those fees due in or about June 2014totalling$20,461.96.[8] The Evidence and background Thewife relied upon her:- applicationin a case filed 17 July 2014; affidavitof wife filed 4 July 2014; affidavitof wife filed 19 August 2014; affidavitof wife filed 1 September 2014; and FinancialStatement of the Wife sworn 1 September 2014. Partof the evidence contained in the wifes second affidavit, was a copy of anemail dated 15 August 2014. The wife said theemail was sent to her from SchoolA, warning her that unless the school fees were paid the enrolment of and theentitlement of Dand G to attend school would be terminated. The wife madearrangements to pay that sumherself.[9] Thewife tendered in evidence a series of documents:- Exhibit W1 - Letters from School A of July and September 2014 Exhibit W2 - Letters from Watts McCray as to costs Exhibit W3 - Form of orders Thehusband relied upon his:- responsefiled 22 August 2014 financialstatement of husband filed 22 August 2014; affidavitof husband filed 22 August 2014; Noticeto Costs  Exhibit H1; ExhibitH2 - further amended Notice of Appeal; and ExhibitH3 - summary of argument for the appeal and list of authorities by MichaelKearny SC. Interms of the issue about the undertaking each of the parties referred me tovarious parts of the reason, the wife to paragraphs345 to 349 and the husbandto the same provision but in the context of the nature of the undertaking reliedupon by Fowler J. Theoffer to give an undertaking was apparently contained inthe husbands case outline and which the husband said was an offerto givean undertaking in the context of the husbands case regarding childsupport and spouse maintenance. In the furtheramended notice of appeal theonly reference to the undertaking is on page 11 where it isasserted:- Child Support ... ThatHis Honour erred in noting an undertaking of the husband in paragraph 58 of theOrders in circumstance where no undertakingwas proffered by or on behalf of the[husband]. Therewas no submission on this point in the summary of argument for the appeal andlist of authorities. Ihad regard to the Orders and the reasons. In the Reasons Fowler J observed inrespect of non-periodic child support:- Eachof the parties seeks an order that the husband, in addition to periodic childsupport, pays other expenses with respect to thechildren. The additionalexpenses covered by the proposed orders are ones which are already being met bythe husband. They relateto school fees and tuition costs, private healthinsurance, other health and medical costs and extracurricular activities. Noformal application was made by either party invoking Part 7 Division 5 of theAssessment Act, which deals with orders for childsupport paid to a carerotherwise than in the form of periodic amounts. Ordinarily, an application fornon-periodic child supportwould be governed by the provisions of sections 122,123 and 124 of the Assessment Act. Inthis case, however, the Court was not addressed on those provisions and neitherparty seeks that an order be made under those provisions.The husband however byhis proposed order provides a clear undertaking to make the payments. Notwithstandingthe parties agreement as to the range of expenses that the husband shouldpay in addition to periodic childsupport, the wife submits that the husband haslittered his order with a requirement that his agreement be soughtinwriting before he is required to pay for certain expenses. She submits thatin this case such an order would be unworkable.The Court does notagree with that submission. TheCourt intends to include a notation in the orders that the husband has made anundertaking to continue to meet the additionalexpenses referred to above.Should he fail to do so, the wife will have liberty to bring an applicationbefore the Court seekingcompliance with his undertaking or sanctions for itsbreach. Seniorcounsel for the husband submitted that the undertaking relied upon by Fowler Jwas contained in the husbands case outlinefor the trial commencing on 1July 2013 and the husbands case outline for this proceeding said that hewould rely upon Thetranscript of the proceedings before the HonourableJustice Fowler from 1-5 July 2014 and 8 and 9 July 2014. Those documentswere not put formally before me. The less contentious matters Iindicated to the parties that I would not be dealing with their respective costsapplications at this stage. I said that I woulddeal with those once both theinterlocutory aspects were resolved and the appeal was resolved. Accordingly, Iwill be making anorder reserving the costs of both parties. Interms of the husbands application for an injunction; there are nosubstantive proceedings on foot. As such I am not satisfiedthat I have thepower to deal with the orders sought by the husband in items 5 and 6 of hisresponse to the wifes applicationin a case. Iraised this with senior counsel for the husband and indicated I would not bedealing with these matters at this time. Further,I directed that if thehusband wished to make an application he ought to file a substantive applicationwithin a short period oftime and that could be dealt with in the normal courseas a substantive application which may or may not have interim aspects toit. Eachof the parties referred me to the Reasons which contained a background inparagraph 7 through to 27. They include that the husbandwas now aged about 47and the wife 45. They have three children aged 17, 14 and 12. The elder liveswith the father and the youngertwo live with the wife. Thehusband is a healthcare professional and the wife now works as a casual healthscience worker. She was not in paid employmentin October 2013. Thehusband was born in 1967 and is presently 46 years of age. He is a [healthcare]professional who practices full-time inhis specialist field. Within that fieldthe husband has two sub-specialties. The wife was born in 1969 and is presently44 yearsof age. She is a qualified [health science professional] but has notworked in that field for some time, although there is now arecent change. Thewife is in the process of retraining to enable this return by her to paidemployment as a [health scienceprofessional].[10] Thehusband and wife married and commenced cohabitation in 1995. Their finalseparation occurred in April 2012. Proceedingscommenced in April 2012 in the then Federal Magistrates Court of Australia.Interim orders were made and eventually theproceedings found their way to theFamily Court. The final hearing was conducted over seven days from 1 July to 9July 2013 andthe Orders were made and reasons published on 4 October 2013. Anappeal was lodged on 1 November2013[11], an amended appeal on 23May 2014 and a further amended in late August or early September 2014. Thereis no evidence that the appeal is progressing other than normally through theprocesses of the Full Court. Inthese reasons any statement of fact is to be regarded as a finding of factunless the contrary is clear from the context surroundingthat fact. Itwas not put that the monies allegedly due under the undertaking, the arrears ofspouse maintenance and child support were not payable. Theissues were:- Whetherthere should be a stay of the spouse maintenance and child support orderspending the appeal and if so what conditions, ifany, should apply to that stay;and Whetherthe undertaking given by the husband should be enforced as an order, or theapplication for the issue of the warrant dismissedor adjourned until after thedetermination of the appeal. Thelaw applicable to a stay application is set out by the Full Court in Jackson& Balen [2009] Fam CA FC131 where the Full Court said at paragraph28:- Theprinciples to be applied in hearing a stay application pending an appeal arewell settled (see Federal Commissioner of Taxation v Myer Emporium Ltd [No.1] [1986] HCA 13; (1986) 160 CLR 220 at 222; Alexander v Cambridge CreditCorporation Ltd (1985) 2 NSWLR 685; Jennings Construction Ltd vBurgundy Royale Investments Pty Ltd [1986] HCA 84; (1986) 161 CLR 681). Those authoritiesstress the discretionary nature of the application which should be determined onits merits. Principles relevantto this matter include the following: the onus toestablish a proper basis for the stay is on the applicant for the stay. Howeverit is not necessary for the applicantto demonstrate any specialor exceptional circumstances; a person who hasobtained a judgment is entitled to the benefit of that judgment; a person who hasobtained a judgment is entitled to presume the judgment is correct; the mere filingof an appeal is insufficient to grant a stay; the applicationmust be bona fides; a stay may begranted on terms that are fair to all parties - this may involve a courtweighing the balance of convenience and thecompeting rights of theparties; a weighing ofthe risk that an appeal may be rendered nugatory if a stay is not granted this will be a substantial factorin determining whether it will beappropriate to grant a stay; some preliminaryassessment of the strength of the proposed appeal  whether the appellanthas an arguable case. Child Support Departure Asto the stay sought in respect of the Child Support Departure Order (order 54),given the material before me, I am not proposingto accede to thehusbands application. The onus is on the husband as the applicant toestablish a proper basis for the stay.He has not done so and given the delay inthe determination as to the veracity of the undertaking the wife is entitled tothe benefitof that departure order, which is presumed to be correct. Thereis no issue that the husbands appeal appears, on the surface, to be bonafides. There is no risk of the appeal may berendered nugatory if that stay isnot granted and each party has available assets to tide them over during theappeal process. Theappeal as to the departure order is arguable, given thesubmissions. Thereason for this is that the husband indicated in the trial that he was agreeableto paying the school fees of the younger childrentotalling about $60,000 pluseither $220 per week or $440 per week child support for the children, plus otherexpenses such as healthinsurance and the like. The requirement, if it exists,for the husband to comply with the undertaking is not being enforced at thisstage, however, the wife should in the meantime receive the child support whichis approximately equal to the amount of the schoolfees pending the outcome ofthe appeal. I will leave that determination to the Full Court. Further,in relation to child support the husband claims that his financial circumstanceshave deteriorated since last year. Hischoices in regard to that alleged changeare to pursue his options through the appeal process (which he is doing) and/orto makea fresh application if he chooses to do so for departure from thatorder, either through the administrative processes via the Child Support(Assessment) Act or if he is successful on the appeal, he can seek adeparture in the context of a re-hearing. It is not a prudent for me to secondguess a considered determination of a judge of this Court in the context of thisstay application, particularly in the context ofthese parties complexfinancial arrangements. A stay may be granted on terms that are fair to allparties - this may involvea court weighing the balance of convenience and thecompeting rights of the parties. Whatis left is the husbands application to stay order 45 of the Orders (as tothe property issues) and a stay as to order54 (spousemaintenance). Spousal Maintenance Iaccept the onus is on the husband to establish the basis for the stay. I alsoaccept that the wife is entitled to the benefit ofthe judgment. Interms of the spouse maintenance order, the order was based upon a finding thatthe wife was not in receipt of an income. The wifeis now in receipt of anincome of some $385 per week. Giventhat change in the wifes income and given the husbands assertionthat his financial circumstances have deterioratedsince the first instancehearing and the making of the Orders by Fowler J, I am satisfied that it wouldappropriate to stay partof that order to the extent that the wife earns herincome of $385 per week. Accordingly, I will stay part of Fowler Jsmaintenanceorder and I will leave the husband responsible for paying thebalance of maintenance. The property order Asto the property order, it appears that the first payment of $266,124 is to bemade sometime in the first part of 2015. This ispart of the instalment propertywhich totals $798,370 (the instalment property order). Theamount of the instalment property order and the impact of that payment on thehusbands financial circumstances is thathe claims he was left withproperty primarily in the form of his superannuation fund, and which the husbandsays is a significantpart of his appeal. Ipropose to stay that order, but make it clear that if that order survives theappeal, and subject to any determination of the FullCourt, interest shouldaccrue on those sums due under the instalment property order in accordance withthe Rules of the Court andas from the date that the payments would otherwise bedue. Inrelation to the applications together and individually I make the followingcomments. Thestay applications made by the husband were lodged quite late. The appeal waslodged in November 2013 and the stay has only cometo the Court in many ways asa reaction by the husband to the wife seeking, as it were, to enforce theundertaking. However,the husband has asserted a significant change in his financial circumstances andthe wife is now employed, at least on apart time basis. Thehusband appears to have promptly prosecuted his appeal. I accept that theapplication for stay is, on the surface at least, bonafide. The appeal islikely to be heard in the relatively near future as much of the work has beendone. It is clear to me that atranscript had been obtained and that theparties have turned their minds to the submissions in relation to theappeal. Inmaking these determinations, I have considered the further amended grounds ofappeal[12] and the husbandssummary of argument which were prepared by senior counsel. Thereis an arguable case in relation to the orders including the property order, thespousal maintenance order and the child supportorder. Thewife has significant property and she has the benefit of a number of propertiesand other assets. Givenall of these circumstances I have determined that the stay in relation to theproperty and spouse maintenance orders ought tobe made on condition of thematters I have referred to earlier. In terms of the child support departureorder, determination, Idismiss the husbands application for a stay inthat regard. The Undertaking Theundertaking is clear and unambiguous in terms of the provision of the notationcontained at paragraph 58 of the Reasons. Thehusbands contentions inrelation to the undertaking was that it was not given in the terms of anundertaking by the husbandto the Court other than on the condition that hewould pay the same if the child support for each of the two younger children waslimited to $220 per week. I am not sure whether that should be each or for bothchildren as it is unclear on the documents fromthe husband as to whether it isthe $220 per week or $440. Itis not for me to determine whether the undertaking is a valid exercise of thepower of the Court or not, that is a matter for theFull Court which will bedetermined in due course. However, given the submissions contained in thesummary of argument on behalfof thehusband[13] it is clear that thataspect is, at least, arguable. Thereis no provision for this Court to stay the undertaking as it is not an order ofthe Court. However, given the submissions madeon behalf of the husband andhaving regard to the submissions and affidavit material of the wife I amsatisfied, on balance, thatat this stage, the enforcement of that undertakingshould not proceed pending the determination of the appeal. Thisview is predicated upon the finances which the wife has been able to applytowards legal costs, the payment of rent to her parentsin a significant sum inadvance and finally the offer of the husband to pay $10,000 forthwith towardsthe current outstanding schoolfees. Ifthe husband does not pay that $10,000 within fourteen days of the date of thepublication of these reasons and the making of theorders, it is open for thewife to come back to the Court in relation to the enforcement of the undertakingwhich, for the purposeof these proceedings, I have treated as an undertakingwhich is enforceable under the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) (theAct). Part XII of the Act, s 112AA provides:- order under this Act, in relation to a court means: (c) an undertaking given to, and accepted by, the court in proceedings underthis Act other than proceedings that relate whollyor partly to, or the makingof, a parenting order; or ... Itseems clear that the legislature empowers and enables the court to enforce avalid undertaking made to it. Inhis submissions counsel for the wife said I ought to take note of the materialattached to her affidavit of 1 September 2014. I am troubled by this approach. To look at finances in the absence of a broad context and understanding can leadto error. Theparenting and property issues were argued before Fowler J oversome seven days. I had limited evidence before me as to the precisenature ofthe parties circumstances. Anexample of this was the argument as to whether the husband had an entitlement tothe assets of a trust. There was evidence ofthe payment of money into and outof the husbands account in relation to his fathers estate forlegal fees. However,it was not clear to me whether these were his funds orfunds relating to the Estate. Asignificant part of the property owned by the husband, according to him, wascontained in his superannuation fund. Given the husbandsage it is clearthat he could not access those funds. One of the cars referred to by the wifewas available for the enforcementsummons but apparently is being used by theparties elder child. I do not know whether the husband has both a legaland equitableinterest in that property or merely legal interest in it. Thewife referred to an asset in the husbands company in the formof frankingcredits. Igenerally accept the submissions of senior counsel on behalf of the husband andcombined with the husbands promise to pay$10,000 towards the school feesborrowed from a member of his family, the enforcement will not be considered atthis time. Forthe reasons set out herein I am satisfied, exercising the broad discretion thatI have in respect of the issue of a warrant thatit ought not to be issued atthis time. Ihave determined that the wifes application for the issue of a warrantshould stand over for a period of time to enable theappeal to be determined andthen the application for enforcement and including the review the decision ofthe Registrar could thenoccur. Thus, the wifes claimed entitlement to ahave a warrant issue is preserved. Ifthe undertaking is one to which the Act applies and if that undertaking is notimpeached in the appeal process, then it is openfor the wife to return to thisCourt and seek the issue of the warrant. In the meantime I have determined,having regard to thebroad discretion that I have in respect of the question ofthe warrant, not to do so for the time being. I have adjourned the warrantproceedings and the review of the Registrars decision to a date inmid-2015. I have also given leave for the parties to havethe matter restoredbefore me in the event the appeal is determined earlier, the conditions relatingto the stay are not compliedwith, or there needs to be further extension oftime. I certify that the preceding eighty two (82) paragraphs are atrue copy of the reasons for judgment of the Honourable Justice Benjamindelivered on 28 October 2014. Associate: Date: 28October 2014 [1] Reasons for Judgment, deliveredby Fowler J on 4 October 2013 (theReasons). [2] Affidavit ofwife filed 4 July 2014. [3] ExhibitW2. [4] ExhibitH1. [5]Exhibit H2. [6] Annexure AA to affidavit ofwife filed 19 August 2014. [7]Affidavit of wife filed 19 August 2014 paragraph 11 and paragraph 4(b) of theenforcement warrant attached to the form of order lodgedby wife as ExhibitH3. [8] Annexure C to affidavit ofwife filed 4 July 2014. [9]Annexure B to affidavit of the wife filed 19 August2014. [10] At paragraphs 8 and 9of the Reasons for Judgment delivered by Fowler J on 4 October2013. [11] Affidavit of husbandfiled 22 August 2014. [12]Exhibit H2. [13] Exhibit H3. AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/918.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                