FAMILY LAW  PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE Wifes application to adjourn final hearing of property and parentingproceedings adjournment opposed by the husband  where the familyconsultant was not available as a witness at the time of thetrial consideration of the costs and time implications for the parties in the event ofa split hearing  considerationof the effect of adjournment on thirdparties and rule 6.02 of the Family Law Rules 2004  applicationfor adjournment of property matters acceded to. Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) Family Law Rules 2004 (Cth) r 6.02 APPLICANT: Mr MacDougal FIRST RESPONDENT: Ms Benson SECOND RESPONDENT: Mr Benson INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: Victoria Legal Aid FILENUMBER: MLC 1674 of 2013 DATE DELIVERED: 3 October 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Melbourne PLACE HEARD: Melbourne JUDGMENT OF: Macmillan J HEARING DATES: 8 & 23 September 2014 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: Ms Stoikovska SOLICITOR FOR THE APPLICANT: Forte Family Lawyers COUNSEL FOR THE FIRST RESPONDENT: Mr St John QC SOLICITOR FOR THE FIRST RESPONDENT: Lennon Mazzeo Lawyers COUNSEL FOR THE SECOND RESPONDENT: Mr Puckey SOLICITOR FOR THE SECOND RESPONDENT: HWL Ebsworth Lawyers COUNSEL FOR THE INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: Ms Dowler SOLICITOR FOR THE INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: Ms Jenkins, Victoria Legal Aid ORDERS IT IS ORDERED THAT Allapplications for final property orders be adjourned for hearing before JusticeMacmillan as the first matter at 10.00 am on 16March 2015 (as a five daymatter). Thematter be listed for mention before Justice Macmillan at 9.30 am on 10February 2015. By4.00 pm on 27 October 2014 the wife file and serve upon all other parties anyfurther affidavit in reply to the affidavits of thehusband. Onor before 28 days from the date of these orders the husband, the wife and thesecond respondent file and serve upon all other partiesa statement setting outwith precision the orders they seek upon each other party and any person whoseinterest may be affected bythe orders they seek or an issue in the case. Onor before 14 days thereafter the husband, the wife and the second respondentfile and serve upon all other parties any applicationin a case seeking to joinany other party to the proceedings upon any person whose rights may be affectedby the orders they seek. Noparty file any further material other than as provided by these orders withoutleave of the Court. Thehusband pay all setting down and trial fees by 4.00 pm on 16 February 2015 orobtain the requisite waiver thereof. Thepractitioners for the husband and the wife and/or the parties in the event thatthey are not legally represented file and serveelectronically to ... by 4.00 pmon 2 March 2015 the following: aconcise set of orders to be sought if different from those already filed; alist of the applications and affidavits to be read and, if not the wholeaffidavit, the relevant paragraphs relied upon; alist of the parties respective legal and equitable interests in propertyand liabilities; alist of objections to evidence upon which rulings are required, if any; and abullet-point summary of argument in relation to the legal and factual issues indispute. By4.00 pm on 10 March 2015 the husband file and serve electronically to ... anyamended case outline containing the matters set outin paragraphs 8(a) to (e)hereof. Thequestion of whether the second respondent should be required to file a furthercase outline pursuant to paragraph 8 hereof bereserved to the mention of thematter on 10 February 2015. IT IS NOTED thatpublication of this judgment by this Court under the pseudonym MacDougal& Benson and Anor (No. 2) has been approved by the Chief Justicepursuant to s 121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT MELBOURNE FILE NUMBER:MLC 1674 of 2013 Mr MacDougal Applicant And Ms Benson First Respondent And Mr Benson SecondRespondent And Independent ChildrensLawyer REASONS On8 September 2014 I acceded to the application of the wife, supported by thesecond named respondent, to adjourn the final hearingin relation to bothparenting and financial issues to a date to be fixed, subject to availability inearly 2015. I reserved my reasonsfor having acceded to the wifesapplication for an adjournment. These are those reasons. Havingindicated that I intended to accede to the wifes application for anadjournment the parties spent some time attemptingto resolve some issues thatarose as a consequence of the proposed adjournment. Ultimately, the partiesresolved the outstandingparenting issues and I made final orders and removedthe parenting proceedings from the list of cases awaiting hearing. Anumber of possible dates were considered for the final hearing, including 9March 2015 and 16 March 2015, and having further reviewed the available dates Ipropose to adjourn the matter to 16 March 2015,noting that the case is nowestimated to take five days. On6 May 2014 I set this matter down for final hearing as a 10 day matter. It waslisted for mention before me on 4 July 2014. Onthat date I made orders, in anticipation of that final hearing, that the husbandfile and serve the affidavits of evidence in chiefof all witnesses relied uponby 4.00 pm on 18 July 2014, the wife and the second named respondent and theIndependent ChildrensLawyer file and serve the affidavits of evidence inchief of all witnesses relied upon by 4.00 pm on 8 August 2014, and the husbandfile and serve any affidavits in reply to the affidavits of the respondents by4.00 pm on 22 August 2014. The orders also requiredthe parties to file andserve a concise set of the orders to be sought if different from those alreadyfiled, the list of the applicationsand affidavits to be read, and if not thewhole affidavit, the relevant paragraphs relied upon, a list of theparties respectivelegal and equitable interests in property andliabilities, a list of objections to evidence upon which rulings are required,if any,and a bullet-point summary of argument in relation to the legal andfactual issues in dispute by 4.00 pm on 3 September 2014. I furtherordered thatno party file any further material other than as provided by these orderswithout leave of the Court and reserved libertyto the parties to approach thedocketed registrar, in this case Registrar Field, to vary their obligationspursuant to my orders. Onthat same date, I reserved the question of whether or not an updated familyreport should be prepared by the family consultantMs R, whether or not leaveshould be granted to issue subpoenas addressed to any psychiatrist, psychologistor like medical facilitytreating the children or any of them, and the questionof expert evidence in relation to parental alienation to the mention of thematter before me on 4 July 2014. On4 July 2014 I listed the matter for further mention before me on 29 July 2014.On that date Counsel for the husband, the wife andthe IndependentChildrens Lawyer made submissions with respect to the issue of whetherthe parties and the children shouldbe required to attend upon Ms R for thepurposes of the preparation of an updated report. Judgment was reserved and on10 July 2014I made orders, inter-alia, as follows: Thehusband, the wife, and the children of the marriage [S] born ... 1998, [C] born... 2001 and [M] born ... 2006 attend upon [MsR] for the purposes of thepreparation of an updated family report SAVE THAT: thechild [Ss] attendance be subject to his wishes and/or the recommendationsof his treating mental health professionals;and thechildren not be brought into contact with the husband for the purposes of thepreparation of the report. Ms[Rs] report be completed and released to the parties by no later than4.00 pm on 19 August 2014. Ms[R] be at liberty to speak to the childrens treating medicalpractitioners and/or any medical professional who has or ispresently treatingthe children and/or any teacher and/or other staff member involved with thechildren at their respective schoolsand to inspect the Court file and alldocuments produced under any subpoena which the Court has ordered be released. Thequestion of payment for the preparation of Ms [Rs] report be reserved tothe mention of this matter on 29 July 2014. Thematter was listed for further mention, in my absence before Johns J, on 1August 2014. On that date, Johns J made orders by consent which included ordersfor the payment of Ms Rs fees for the preparationof her updated reportand the payment of accountants for the preparation of tax returns inanticipation of the hearing, orders forthe issue of subpoenas to the parties'medical or mental health professionals, and orders for the release of documentsproduced pursuantto subpoena, and leave was granted to the wife to amend herresponse for final orders and any such amended response be filed andserved by4.00 pm on 8 August 2014. Her honour granted leave to the husband to file anyfurther amended application for final ordersand/or reply by 4.00 pm on 15August 2014. On15 August 2014 the husband filed an application in a case seeking to proceed onan undefended basis which was listed for mentionbefore me at 9.30 am on 29August 2014. On that date, I made orders permitting the IndependentChildrens Lawyer to provide copies of thereports prepared by Dr Aand Ms R to the Department of Human Services and reserved the parties andthe Independent Childrens Lawyerscosts in relation to theapplication to proceed undefended and the response thereto. At2.49 pm on 29 August 2014, following the mention before me on that date, thesolicitor for the husband sent an email to the solicitorsfor the wife, secondrespondent and the Independent Childrens Lawyer asfollows: Dear Colleagues It was not clear to us this morning whether [h]er Honour was aware that Ms [R]is not available for cross-examination in the twoweeks beginning 8 September2014. If you believe she is aware, could you please let us know? Her Honour mentioned that she is on leave next week, so if the issue is raisednext week, she will not have an opportunity to considerthe options. Perhaps a joint letter should be sent to [h]er Honours Associate todayconfirming that this is the case and that the partiespropose that the day begiven another listing when Ms [R] is back from leave, and advise [h]er Honour ofthe dates of Ms [Rs]leave? We do not know the precise dates of Ms [Rs] leave. What are your views? On1 September 2014 the wifes solicitor replied to all the partiessolicitors as follows: Dear colleagues, Werefer to the email from Forte Family Lawyers dated 29 August 2014. Priorto receipt of that email, we were unaware of Ms [Rs] unavailability atthe final hearing. We do not believe we have receivedany correspondence to thateffect. We would be pleased to be referred to any such correspondence. Mr[Z] of our office spoke with Mr [AB] of Forte Family Lawyers late on Friday, 29August 2014. Mr [Z] was advised the fact of Ms[Rs] unavailabilityessentially arose in conversation with the [I]ndependent [C]hildrens[L]awyer. Inthe circumstances, we consider it almost certain Justice [Macmillan] is unawareof Ms [Rs] unavailability. As to Forte FamilyLawyers (sic)request that we jointly write to [h]er Honour to request the final hearing besplit, we do not agree. Werefer to comments by [h]er Honour at the mention on Friday, 29 August 2014,relating to evidence as to the parenting aspect ofthe proceeding, particularlyevidence as to the effect on the children of any change of residence. In thatrespect, Ms [Rs]evidence is crucial to [h]er Honoursconsideration of what is in the best interests of the children. We take the viewthat[h]er honour will want to have regard to Ms [Rs] evidence early inthe final hearing. Ms [Rs] evidence may affect theconduct of theproceeding because it will inform [h]er Honour about that crucial evidence. Wetake the view it would be inappropriatefor Ms [Rs] evidence to be hearda number of weeks after the main body of the hearing. Wenote also that, if the final hearing is split, there will be significant furthercosts to the parties (including the [I]ndependent[C]hildrens [L]awyerand the second respondent). Itis our view, if Ms [R] is not available for cross-examination of the finalhearing as listed, then it should be adjourned. We proposejointly writing to[h]er Honours Associate first to confirm whether she is available for atelephone mention, and secondly,if she is, to request such a mention.Enclosed is a joint letter to the Family Court, for execution by each ofthe parties. Weawait your urgent responses. Theproposed joint letter to the Court was not sent however there was furthercorrespondence passing between the respective solicitorsas to whether or not itwould be appropriate for there to be a split hearing, whether ornot the matter needed to beadjourned, and whether or not the matter should evenbe listed for a mention prior to the date fixed for the commencement of thefinal hearing to advise the Court of Ms Rs unavailability. Itwould appear that notwithstanding there having been a contested hearing withrespect to the question of whether Ms R should evenprepare an updated reportand a number of mentions of the matter, the fact that Ms R would not beavailable to give evidence andbe cross-examined during the two weeks commencing8 September 2014 and would not be available until after 22 October 2014 was notmade known to the Court. It was only when the final hearing commenced on 8September 2014 that the Court was made aware for the firsttime that Ms R wasnot available for cross-examination and that she would not be available untilafter 22 October 2014. Itis conceded by the Independent Childrens Lawyer that she knew of MsRs unavailability by 4 July 2014 and instructed counsel appearing on herbehalf to inform the parties and the Court accordingly.There is no evidencebefore me as to exactly when it might have been that the husbandssolicitor became aware of Ms Rsunavailability. Counsel for theIndependent Childrens Lawyer accepted responsibility and apologised tothe Court for not havingadvised the solicitors for the wife and, perhaps moreimportantly, the Court of Ms Rs unavailability. AlthoughI find it somewhat difficult to understand why, if the solicitors for thehusband were aware that Ms R would be unavailable,it would not have beenreferred to either in correspondence passing between the solicitors or raised atthe various mentions of thematter, in the circumstances, the question of who isresponsible for the Court not being made aware of Ms Rs unavailabilityisultimately immaterial to the question of whether or not the adjournment shouldbe granted. It is Ms Rs unavailability initself rather than its cause orwhether or when the parties knew of her unavailability that is the real issue. Counselfor the husband submitted that the matter should proceed in the absence of Ms Ron the basis that she give her evidence andbe cross-examined at a later date.In the course of correspondence passing between the respective firms it wassuggested by the solicitorfor the husband that all that would be required was afurther day of hearing. Counsel for the wife submitted that the matter wouldbelikely to require a further four days allowing for final submissions. Counselfor the husband, whilst not conceding that it wouldtake four days, did concedethat it would require more than the suggested one day. Inmy view the case, if split, could quite easily have taken up to a further fourdays to conclude. Although the possibility of theparties filing written finalsubmissions was raised, that would, in my view, have only added to theparties costs. The timerequired to complete the case raised asignificant issue as to my having the time to conclude the matter irrespectiveof Ms Rsavailability, and the likelihood, given the matters alreadylisted before me, that I might not be able to return to the matter inany eventuntil early next year. The likely delay given the number of issues in dispute,the complexity of the matter, and the factthat the matter involves a thirdparty who is not a party to the parenting proceedings was of particular concernto me. I was alsoaware that splitting the hearing had the potential to addfurther to the parties costs which are already significant. Therewere a number of other matters which led me to conclude that I should adjournthe final hearing to a date to be fixed. Theyincluded the followingmatters: that the orderssought by the husband with respect to property settlement, in particular withrespect to the default provisions, purportto affect the interests of thirdparties who are not on notice as to those proposed orders. I refer in particularto properties registeredin the name of the wife and her two brothers, one ofwhom is the second respondent. Although one of the wifes brothers isaparty to the proceedings and has been served with a copy of the orders or beengiven notice of the orders, that is not the casein relation to the wifesother brother, Mr BB Benson; and that the taxowed by Company U is as yet unquantified but is likely to exceed $300,000, whichrepresents a significant proportionof the asset pool in this case. Whilst theparties each blame the other for the delay in preparation of the returns for thecompanythat is not relevant for the purposes of my determination as to whetheror not the proceedings should be adjourned. Counselfor the wife also submitted that notwithstanding the orders made with respect toT Pty Ltd it appeared to be the husbandscase that the wife had anequitable interest by way of constructive trust in property or properties ownedby T Pty Ltd and that inthose circumstances the registered owner must be joinedas a party to the proceedings. Inmy view, these are matters that will all need to be addressed. Although counselfor the husband submitted that the matter couldproceed on the basis of thewifes brother Mr BB Benson being given notice prior to judgment beingdelivered, that in my viewwould not afford Mr BB Benson procedural fairness. Inaddition, notwithstanding the orders made for the preparation of the matter forfinal hearing, the parties were filing affidavitsin the week leading up to thehearing and at the commencement of the hearing the wife had not filed a caseoutline pursuant to myorders setting out the orders she sought. Ihad, on those occasions when the matter was listed for hearing before me,repeatedly expressed my concern as to the necessity forthis matter to befinalised, particularly with respect to that part of the proceedings relating tothe children. On that basis, itwas with great reluctance that I ultimatelyconcluded that the matter should be adjourned. However, weighing up all of thecircumstancesof the case, that was in my view the most appropriate course. Althoughthe parenting proceedings were ultimately finalised on the first day of thehearing, neither party submitted that I shouldthen commence to hear theproperty proceedings nor in the circumstances do I consider that it would beappropriate to have done so. Ipropose to list the matter, now as a five day matter, for final hearing beforeme commencing at 10.00 am on 16 March 2015. I willalso list the matter formention at 9.00 am on 10 February 2015 in order to confirm that the matter is infact ready for hearing. Counselfor the wife seeks leave to file a further affidavit in reply to the affidavitsfiled on behalf of the husband since she filedher last affidavit. That is notopposed and I propose to make that order on the basis that it avoids thenecessity of the wife havingto give oral evidence by way of reply to thoseaffidavits. Rule6.02 of the Family Law Rules 2004 provides that a person whose rights may bedirectly affected by an issue in a case, and whose participation as a party isnecessaryfor the Court to determine all issues in dispute in the case, must beincluded as a party to the case. It appears that in this casethere are suchpersons affected by an issue in the case who have not been either given noticeof the orders or joined as a partyto the proceedings. So as to avoid anyfurther difficulties that might arise, I propose to make an order that on orbefore 28 days from the date of my orders each ofthe husband, the wife and the second respondent file and serve a statementsetting out with precision the orders that theyseek upon each other party andany person whose interests may be affected by the orders they seek or an issuein the case. They willthen have a further 14 days thereafter in which to fileand serve any application in a case seeking to join any other party to theproceedings upon any person whose rights may be affected by those orders. Thiswill hopefully ensure that any procedural steps thatmay be required can beattended to well prior to the date fixed for final hearing so that any furtherdelays are avoided. Ialso propose to order that the husband and the wife file and serve their caseoutlines at least two weeks prior to the final hearing.Although the husbandfiled an outline of case, it may be that the orders he seeks will have beenfurther amended and in those circumstancesit is appropriate that he file afurther case outline. The wife has, as I have already mentioned, not filed acase outline and itis only fair, the wife having been served with thehusbands case outline prior to the hearing on 8 September 2014, that thehusband have some additional time to consider the wifes case outline. Ipropose to allow the husband some further time tofile any amended case outlineafter he has had the opportunity to consider the wifes case outline. Thesecond named respondent did not appear and was not represented at the mentionbefore me on 23 September 2014. The issues withrespect to the case against himare clearly defined and he has already filed and served an outline of caseaddressing those issues.However, it is possible that further issues may arise.In those circumstances I will reserve the question of whether the second namedrespondent should be required to file and serve a further case outline to themention of this matter on 10 February 2015. I certify that thepreceding twenty-eight (28) paragraphs are a true copy of the reasons forjudgment of the Honourable Justice Macmillandelivered on 3 October2014. Associate: Date: 3 October 2014 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/858.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               