FAMILY LAW  PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE Where the wife seeks leave to proceed on an undefended basis against the husband where the husband has not filed material pursuant to previous orders where the husband has not complied with previousorders application granted. Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) Family LawRules 2004 (Cth) r 11.02 Tate JRD v Tate MT [2000] FamCA 1040; (2000) FLC 93-047 APPLICANT: Ms Turner RESPONDENT: Mr Turner SECOND RESPONDENT: Turner Pty Ltd FILENUMBER: MLC 5928 of 2013 DATE DELIVERED: 29 October 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Melbourne PLACE HEARD: Melbourne JUDGMENT OF: Macmillan J HEARING DATE: 24 October 2014 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: Mr Sweeney SOLICITOR FOR THE APPLICANT: Taussig Cherrie Fildes THE RESPONDENT: In person COUNSEL FOR THE SECOND RESPONDENT: Mr Dickson QC SOLICITOR FOR THE SECOND RESPONDENT: Kenna Teasdale Lawyers ORDERS IT IS ORDERED THAT Thehusbands Response to Initiating Application filed 4 October 2013 bestruck out. Thewifes Application in a Case filed 21 October 2014, save and except forany applications for costs, be otherwise dismissed. IT IS NOTED that publication of this judgment by this Court under thepseudonym Turner & Turner and Anor has been approved by theChief Justice pursuant to s 121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act 1975(Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT MELBOURNE FILE NUMBER:MLC 5928 of 2013 Ms Turner Applicant And Mr Turner Respondent And Turner Pty Ltd Second Respondent REASONS FOR JUDGMENT Thismatter was listed for mention before me on 24 October 2014 to ascertain itsreadiness for trial on 2 December 2014. On21 October 2014 the wife filed an application in a case seeking that the matterproceed on an undefended basis on such terms asthis Honourable Court deems fit.That application was returnable before me on 24 October 2014. On4 August 2014 I made orders by way of preparation for the trial, inter alia, asfollows: By4.00 pm on 22 September 2014 the applicant file and serve upon all otherparties: theaffidavits of evidence in chief of all witnesses relied upon (noting thataffidavits relied upon for previous hearings cannotbe relied upon as evidencein chief); and afinancial statement that complies with chapter 13 of the Family LawRules. By4.00 pm on 13 October 2014 the respondent file and serve upon all otherparties: anamended response setting out with precision the orders to be sought; theaffidavits of evidence in chief of all witnesses relied upon (noting thataffidavits relied upon for previous hearings cannotbe relied upon as evidencein chief); and afinancial statement that complies with chapter 13 of the Family LawRules. By4.00 pm on 24 October 2014 the applicant file and serve any affidavit in replyto the affidavits of the respondent. Noparty file any further material other than as provided by these orders withoutleave of the Court. ... Shouldany party fail to comply with these orders or the ensuing amending directions ofthe docketed registrar, the party who hascomplied may immediately thereafterfile an application in a case supported by an affidavit seeking for the matterto proceed onan undefended basis. ... Thetime for the husband to comply with paragraph 3 of the orders of this HonourableCourt dated 1 April 2014 be extended to 4.00pm on 25 August 2014. Thereport of [Ms B], the single expert witness, be completed and released by 4.00pm on 17 October 2014. By4.00 pm on 15 August 2014 the wife file and serve upon the husband and [TurnerPty Ltd] in accordance with the Family Law Rules a further amended initiatingapplication and an affidavit setting out the facts relied upon to support theaddition of a new partyto the proceedings together with a sealed copy of theorder made this day. ... On22 September 2014 the wife filed and served her affidavit of evidence in chiefand a financial statement in accordance with paragraph3 of the orders of 4August 2014. The wife has also filed and served a further amended initiatingapplication and an affidavit insupport of that application upon the husband andTurner Pty Ltd pursuant to paragraph 17 of those orders. The husband, however,hasnot complied with the order requiring him to file an amended responsesetting out with precision the orders that he seeks, his affidavitsof evidencein chief, or a financial statement. Thisis just one example of the husbands failure to comply with orders of thisCourt or to participate in these proceedings. Theproceedings commenced by way of the wifes Initiating Application filed 19July 2013. The parties attended a case assessmentconference on 27 August 2013.Both parties were represented by counsel and orders were made by consentadjourning all extant applicationsto the Judicial Duty List on 4 October 2013.Those orders also specified particular documents the husband was required toprovideto the wife as part of his obligation to provide full and frankdisclosure. On4 October 2013 the husband filed a response to initiating application, anaffidavit in support of that application, and a financialstatement. On thatdate, a further order was made by consent that each party comply with theirobligations for disclosure pursuantto the orders made by consent on 27 August2013. The parties also consented to orders that the wife provide the husbandwith a draftletter of instruction to Ms B of B Accounting to value theparties interest in various entities referred to in the husbandsaffidavit and Turner Pty Ltd collectively referred to as The TurnerGroup. The husband was to advise as to any amendmentsto that letter ofinstruction within 14 days. The parties also agreed to appoint Ms SP to valueall rural properties held by or onbehalf of the Turner Group and Z Pty Ltd tovalue all properties in which the wife has an interest in the MelbourneMetropolitanarea and those held by or on behalf of the Turner Group. Each ofthe parties was represented by counsel on that date. On7 October 2013 Cronin J ordered that by way of interim distribution of property,the wife retain the net proceeds of sale of aproperty at I Street, K Town, andhis Honour dismissed paragraph 2 of the application for interim orders containedin the husbandsresponse filed 4 October 2013 which sought the equaldivision of the proceeds of sale of the K Town property, and adjourned all otheroutstanding interim applications to the Judicial Duty List to 10.00 am on 19December 2013. Whenthe matter came on for hearing on 19 December 2013 all extant interimapplications were further adjourned by consent to the JudicialDuty List at10.00 am on 1 April 2014. There was a notation to those orders that the partiesanticipated that the joint valuationsprovided for in the orders of 4 October2013 would be completed by the adjourned date. Both parties were againrepresented by counselon that date. On14 March 2014 the wife filed an amended initiating application. In thatapplication the wife sought orders, inter alia, that thehusband provide to hersolicitors copies of all the documents specified in the orders made 27 August2013 (other than those previouslyprovided by Saxbys Lawyers) and that thehusband do all things as may be required by the wifes solicitors and/orby any singleexpert witness to facilitate completion of the valuations of thematrimonial assets including but not limited to the valuation tobe prepared byMs B and the valuations of the real property. The wife also sought an order thatin the event that the husband failedto comply with the orders providing forfull and frank disclosure and the valuations, that she have leave to seek toproceed on thefirst day of trial on an undefended basis. On28 March 2014 the husband filed an application in a case seeking orders asfollows: Thehearing of the Wifes Amended Initiating Application filed 14 March 2014be adjourned. Thaton or before the expiration of 14 days, the Wife pay or cause to be paid to theHusbands solicitors, Saxbys Lawyers, forand on behalf of the Husband thesum of $300,000 by way of interim property settlement, such sum to be used onaccount of the costsof the Husband prosecuting his claims in this proceedingincluding the costs of obtaining valuation reports pursuant to paragraphs4, 5and 6 of the Consent Orders made on 4 October 2013 and in respect of theHusbands other legal costs and disbursements. Anysuch further or other order this Honourable Court deems fit[.] Thehusband relied upon an affidavit sworn by his solicitor Mr Peter Efklides filed28 March 2014, in which Mr Efklides deposed thathe had been informed by thehusband that he was unable to finance the legal fees associated with theseproceedings, nor able to borrowthe funds necessary to do so. Mr Efklidesfurther deposed that he was not prepared to engage the valuers, as ordered, toundertakevaluations without having the funds in trust to pay for thosevaluations. On1 April 2014 further orders were made by consent which included relevantly for the purposes of the matters I must determine an orderthat required the husband to provide the wifes solicitors with copies ofall documents specified in paragraph2 of the orders made 27 August 2013 (otherthan those previously provided by Saxbys Lawyers) and that he do all things asmay berequired by the wifes solicitors and/or by any single expertwitness to facilitate the completion of the valuations of thematrimonialassets. Each of the parties was represented by counsel at the hearing on thatdate. All extant interim applications wereotherwise dismissed, including thehusbands application for interim property settlement. On27 May 2014 I made orders in Chambers that all extant applications for finalorders be listed for a first day of hearing beforeme at 3.15 pm on 4 August2014 for the purposes of listing the matter for final hearing. I made furtherorders requiring the wife to file and servean amended application setting outwith precision the orders to be sought at trial by 4.00 pm on 7 July 2014 andthat the husbandfile and serve an amended response setting out with precisionthe orders to be sought at trial by 4.00 pm on 21 July 2014. It wasfurtherordered that if discovery and disclosure had not been completed that each partyby 4.00 pm on 23 June 2014 provide to theother party a list of all documentsrequired for inspection and within seven days thereafter, subject to anyobjection on the groundsof privilege, such documents be made available for andbe inspected by the other party. On4 August 2014 at the first day of hearing the wife was represented by counseland the husband appeared in person. The solicitorfor the wife Ms LarissaGoldberg in her affidavit filed 30 July 2014 deposed that the husband had not asat that date complied withhis obligations for disclosure or with the provisionof information to the single expert witnesses pursuant to the various orderspreviously made by consent nor had he complied with the orders made 27 May 2014requiring him to file an amended response. Onthe first day of hearing, I explained in some detail to the husband thenecessity for him to comply with Court orders and the possibleconsequences ifhe did not do so. Notwithstanding that all extant interim applications had beendismissed and that the wife had notfiled a further application seeking toproceed undefended, on 30 July 2014 the wife filed and served an affidavit swornby her solicitorMs Goldberg which purported to be filed in support of anApplication to be made on behalf of the Wife at the First Day listedbefore theHonourable Justice Macmillan on 4 August 2014 that, subject to further order,this matter proceed on an undefended basisat trial on such terms as thisHonourable Court deems fit. Although counsel for the wife did not pressthis application onthe first day of hearing, the husband was on notice, and hasbeen on notice since the wife filed her Amended Initiating Applicationon 14March 2014, as to the possibility of the matter proceeding on an undefendedbasis and the inference that might be drawn againsthim in the face of hiscontinued non-compliance. On4 August 2014 Ms B wrote to the solicitors for the wife and the husbandproviding an estimate of her fees for the preparation ofthe valuation of theinterest held by the parties in the Turner Group, and also setting out documentswhich she required to completethat valuation. Ms B required an initial paymentof $20,000. Pursuant to the orders made 4 August 2014 the time for the husbandtocomply with paragraph 3 of the orders made 1 April 2014, being the orderrequiring him to do all things as may be required by thewifes solicitorsand/or by any single expert witness to facilitate the completion of thevaluations of the matrimonial assets,was extended to 4.00 pm on 25 August 2014.It was further ordered that Ms Bs single expert report be completed andreleasedby 4.00 pm on 17 October 2014. MsGoldberg in her affidavit filed 30 July 2014 deposes that on 22 April 2014Saxbys Lawyers, who were representing the husband atthat time, provided BAccounting with Excel spreadsheets containing the financial accounts for TurnerHoldings Limited and its subsidiariesfor the financial years ending 2010, 2011and 2012. By email dated that same day, Ms KC of B Accounting advised that theyhad notreceived any financial information in respect of three of the entitiesincluded in the schedule attached to their correspondencedated 13 January 2013,namely, PLG Pty Limited, BC Pty Ltd and T Pty Limited. Ms KC requested, at aminimum, a copy of the most recentfinancial statements for these threeentities. Byletter dated that same date of 22 April 2014, Saxbys Lawyers then queried thedate of valuation for the various entities the subjectof the valuation.Although B Accounting replied by letter dated 30 April 2014, Saxbys Lawyers didnot correspond or communicate furtherwith B Accounting. On25 August 2014 the husband sent an email to Ms KC asserting that PLG Limited, BCPty Ltd and T Pty Limited should not be includedin the valuation, and thehusband has not, as at the date of the hearing before me, provided the financialstatements that have beenrequested with respect to these entities. Inher affidavit filed 21 October 2014 in support of her application to proceedundefended, the wife deposes that the husband hasalso failed to pay the sum of$8,745 to Z Pty Ltd on account of his outstanding half share of their fees forthe preparation of valuationsof six properties completed in June 2014 and that,to facilitate their release, she has paid the husbands share and seeksreimbursement of that amount. The wife deposes that the husband has also failedto respond to a request made by the single expertrural property valuer, GAValuers, to pay the sum of $35,900 on account of his half share of theirestimated fees including disbursementsand GST for the valuation of the variousrural properties owned by Turner Holdings Limited and the one rural propertyowned by TurnerPty Ltd. MsGoldberg in her affidavit filed 30 July 2014 deposes that her office provided MsB with copies of the documents produced to theCourt pursuant to subpoena by theXY Consulting Group, a branch of HF Pty Ltd which had prepared a valuation ofTurner Holdings Limitedto assist Ms B in the preparation of her valuation. Althoughon most of the occasions that the matter was before the Court for interimhearing the husband was represented, there havealso been a number of lengthyperiods during the course of these proceedings when he has chosen to representhimself. Ms Goldberg,who acts on behalf of the wife, deposes that during theseperiods the husband has failed to respond to communications from her officeorthe offices of the single expert witnesses and has not co-operated with therequests made by the single expert witnesses. Iam satisfied that the wife has complied with the orders made 4 August 2014 forthe filing of documents and done all that she canto facilitate the preparationof the valuations by the single expert witnesses. I am also satisfied that thehusband has not compliedwith orders for the filing of documents for the trial,has not provided Ms B with the documents she requires to complete her valuation,has not paid his half share of the initial payment of $20,000 required by Ms Bfor the preparation of her valuation or his shareof the costs of the realestate valuations. Inlight of the husbands failure to comply with Court orders, to providedocuments as requested by Ms B, and to meet his shareof the costs of thevarious single expert witnesses, the wife was not prepared to meet the estimatedcost of $163,650 for the preparationof the valuation by Ms B and, as at thedate of the mention before me, that valuation has not beencompleted. DISCUSSION Rule11.02 of the Family Law Rules 2004 (the Rules) providesthat: (1) If a stepis taken after the time specified for taking the step by these Rules, theRegulations or a procedural order, the stepis of noeffect. Note: A defaulter may apply to the court for relief from this rule (see rule11.03) (2) If a party does not comply with these Rules, the Regulations or a proceduralorder, the court may: (a) dismiss allor part of the case; (b) set aside astep taken or an order made; (c) determinethe case as if it were undefended; (d) make any ofthe orders mentioned in rule 11.01; (e) ordercosts; (f) prohibitthe party from taking a further step in the case until the occurrence of aspecified event; or (g) make anyother order the court considers necessary, having regard to the main purpose ofthese Rules (see rule 1.04). Note: This List does not limit the powers of the court. It is an expectationthat a non-defaulting party will minimise any loss. TheExplanatory Guide to the Rules describes undefended basis asfollows: [T]he court may order that a hearing or trial may proceed, because of therespondents failure to comply with a rule or order,as if a response hasnot been filed. The court may make the orders set out in the application onbeing satisfied by evidence thatthe orders should be made. TheFull Court, in upholding the decision of the trial Judge in striking out thehusbands response and refusing him the rightto cross-examine the wifebased upon what was described as a continual delay; most of it due to thenon-compliance of thehusband, said in Tate JRD v Tate MT [2000] FamCA 1040; (2000)FLC 93-047 as follows: Inattempting to match the limited resources of the Court to the demands ofincreasing lists, the principles of case management areassuming greaterprominence. Never an end in themselves, they are and must always remain subjectto and never prevail over the attainmentof justice as the paramountconsideration (State of Queensland v J.L. Holdings; supra)(original italics). But justice in matters such as this is due to each party tolitigation (see the comments of Kirby Jin Allesch v Maunz [2000] HCA 40at paras 38-40). Case Management guidelines, principles and orders are designedto facilitate the ends of justice by encouraging:full frank and promptdisclosure; settlement; identification of the matters genuinely in disputeneeding the Courts determination;and the expeditious marshalling andpresentation of relevant evidence. ... TheCourt, no less than those who litigate before it, is constrained by theinterplay of competing principles. In the attainmentof justice in individualmatters, which will always remain the paramount consideration, appropriatesanctions are essential to seethat its orders and directions are obeyed in thepursuit of that end. Such a goal overrides any notions of punishment fordisobedienceof such orders. Where,as here, non-compliance with the orders and directions of the Court will, in theopinion of the trial Judge, defeat the attainmentof justice, then suitableremedies must be found. In this instance the remedy necessarily excluded thehusband from any further participationin the proceedings. Whilst such casesare exceptional, and indeed unusual, no litigant, whether legallyrepresentedor not, should harbour any doubt that a manipulation of the courtprocesses, (as was attempted and indeed partially achieved in thisinstance),through disregard of and deliberate non-compliance with its orders anddirections will attract other than the strongestmeasures from the Court. Indoing justice to both parties, the exclusion of a defaulter, whose defaultsthreaten the achievementof justice, is not only an option, but, in suchcircumstances, becomes a regrettable necessity. Itis in these cases where a party seeks to proceed undefended a matter of weighingup the competing rights of the parties and theinterests of justice generally.The wife in this case is entitled to have her case heard irrespective,ultimately, of whether thehusband chooses to participate, in any meaningfulsense, in that process. Itwas submitted by the husband, in summary, as follows: that he has beenleft with no money at all and cannot afford legal representation; that he has beenworking 10 to 12 hours each day with only one day off in the last three monthsand has been struggling with whathe said was the whole processand which I take to mean these proceedings; that he does nothave the necessary knowledge or skills to prepare and conduct the litigation onhis own behalf; and that a hearingand the preparation necessary for same, in any event, is unnecessary as thematter is a very simple processto work this out and he is willingto resolve the matter amicably with the wife. Counselfor the wife, by way of reply, submitted that the husband earns approximately$155,000 per annum and that his new partnerearns approximately $135,000 perannum. Counsel also referred me to a home loan application produced pursuant tosubpoena and annexedto Ms Goldbergs affidavit with respect to theproperty purchased by the husband and his new partner in late 2013, in whichthehusband disclosed owning shares in Turner Holdings Limited valued at $861,950.The wifes case is that those shares areworth significantly more than thefigure suggested by the husband in that document. Whetherthe husband does or does not have the capacity to fund the proceedings he cannotsimply ignore Court orders or his obligationto provide full and frankdisclosure. Legal representation is a privilege and not a right, and theinability to fund the proceedingscannot be used as a means to prevent the Courtfrom determining the matter and the other party to the proceedings attainingjustice. Insofaras the husband asserts that he does not have the capacity to deal with theseproceedings on his own behalf, there is no evidencewhich would lead me toconclude that that is the case. Whilst not always the optimal option litigantsfrequently represent themselvesin this Court. The husband in this case is anaccounts manager earning by community standards a relatively high income. He iswell-spokenand would appear to be better placed than many litigants who, forfinancial or other reasons, conduct their own proceedings in thisCourt. Thehusband has had many opportunities to comply with orders of this Court and tomeet his obligations to provide full and frank disclosure.The husband did notsubmit or make any proposals as to how the matter might proceed or when he mightcomply with the orders for thefiling of documents or provide full and frankdisclosure in accordance with various orders and the Rules or how that mightimpactupon the forthcoming hearing. The husband has not participated in theseproceedings in a meaningful sense and he gave me little confidencethat he woulddo so in the event that I did not accede to the wifes application toproceed on an undefended basis. Thedifficulty in this case is that the disadvantage to the wife is not one that canbe addressed simply by a costs order. The wifeis entitled to have her matterheard and a decision made. In all of the circumstances of this case, andweighing up the rights ofboth the husband and the wife, I propose to accede tothe wifes application and will strike out the husbands ResponsetoInitiating Application filed 4 October 2013. Iam mindful of the fact that this matter, for reasons not directly related to thehusbands conduct of the proceedings, maynot be ready to proceed on 2December 2014. Whilst I am satisfied that the husbands failure to complywith the orders of thisCourt and his obligations to provide full and frankdisclosure should not be permitted to delay the hearing on 2 December 2014, ifthe matter does not proceed on that date the husband may have the opportunity toapply to have his response reinstated. Any suchapplication would need to beaccompanied by an affidavit sworn by the husband setting out in detail hisreasons for having failedto comply with the orders of this Court and hisobligation to provide full and frank disclosure, the steps he has taken to meetthatobligation, and a detailed timetable for the filing of the documents thatthe orders require him to file. I certify that the precedingthirty-six (36) paragraphs are a true copy of the reasons for judgment of theHonourable Justice Macmillandelivered 29 October 2014. Associate: Date: 29 October 2014 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/925.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      