FAMILY LAW  COSTS  Where the mothermakes an application for costs up to a certain value  where that value isheld in the mothers solicitors trust account  where the mothersubmits that the conduct of the father caused her toincur additional costs where a costs order is made. Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) FamilyLaw Rules 2004 (Cth) APPLICANT: Ms Florin RESPONDENT: Mr Jokela FILENUMBER: BRC 11727 of 2011 DATE DELIVERED: 28 October 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Brisbane JUDGMENT OF: Forrest J HEARING DATE: Submissions received: 28 July, 2 September and 11 September 2014 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: Ms Carew QC SOLICITOR FOR THEAPPLICANT: Mr Jones Jones Mitchell Lawyers FOR THE RESPONDENT: Self-represented ORDERS (1) Thatthe respondent father pay ninety thousand dollars ($90,000) towards theapplicant mothers costs of and incidentalto these parenting ordersproceedings with the respondent fathers liability pursuant to this Orderto be fully dischargedby the payment to the applicant mother of the sum ofninety thousand dollars ($90,000) currently held in the trust account of theapplicant mothers solicitors, Jones Mitchell Lawyers, being money thatwas deposited there by the applicant mother upon thesale of a vessel. IT IS NOTED that publication of this judgment by this Court underthe pseudonym Florin & Jokela (Costs) has been approved by the ChiefJustice pursuant to s 121(9)(g) of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT BRISBANE FILE NUMBER:BRC 11727 of 2011 Ms Florin Applicant And Mr Jokela Respondent REASONS FOR JUDGMENT Atthe start of a one day trial of competing parenting orders applications on 28April this year, I made a parenting order with theconsent of the parties, theparents of two little boys. They had agreed on many matters, most particularlythat the boys continueto live with their mother in Australia and spend timewith their father during school holidays, either in Australia or in Europewheretheir father lives, or elsewhere overseas. Afterthat parenting order was made, there remained some issues upon which the partieswere in dispute that I was still required tohear and determine.Cross-examination of the parties took place. Submissions were received and myJudgment was delivered on 19 May2014. A further parenting order, adding to theearlier one, was made. On16 June 2014, the mother applied to the Court for an order that the father payher costs of the proceedings on an indemnity basisbut only up to an amount of$90,000, or, in the alternative, on a party/party basis but only up to an amountof $90,000. Themother filed a lengthy affidavit in support of her application. In thataffidavit, she explained the apparent basis for seekinga costs order thatlimited the amount to be paid to the sum of $90,000. She said: Fromthe commencement of proceedings on 23 December 2011 up until judgment wasdelivered on 19 May 2014, I have incurred in the orderof $392,154 in legalfees. InDecember 2011, I arranged for $90,000 to be deposited into Jones MitchellLawyers trust account, being proceeds of sale of a [vessel]registered in mysole name. Those funds were deposited on the basis that they would not bereleased until Jones Mitchell Lawyersreceived either confirmation in writingfrom both parties or an Oder of the Court directing that those funds bereleased. On December2011 my lawyers, Jones Mitchell Lawyers, wrote to [thefather] confirming that the $90,000 had been deposited into their trust accountand would remain frozen. ... Iam informed by my lawyers, Jones Mitchell Lawyers, that the amount of $90,000remains frozen in their trust account. [Thefather] and I have not been able to reach agreement in relation to how thosefunds are to be dealt with and as far as I am awarethere is no Order inAustralia or overseas in relation to those funds. Laterin the same affidavit, the mother said: Iam, however, only seeking costs up to an amount of $90,000, being the fundsfrozen in Jones Mitchell Lawyers trust account as Ido not anticipate that Iwill be able to recover any funds from [the father] personally. AsI understand the mothers application (by reading her supporting affidavitevidence), although she has not specifically soughtsuch an order in herApplication in a Case, in addition to the costs order she seeks, she asks for anorder that the $90,000 heldin her solicitors trust account be paid toher in discharge of the fathers obligation to pay costs under such acostsorder. Thefather demonstrates that is his understanding of the mothers application,too. In his affidavit he said: [Themother] is seeking one off payment of AUD 90,000 towards her legalcosts, those funds to be released from her lawyerstrust account. He opposes the mothers application for an orderthat he pay her costs. However, neither in his affidavit nor in his writtensubmissions does the father make any reference or submission specific to thequestion of whether, if a costs order is made againsthim, his liability to makesuch payment should or should not be discharged by an order that the motherreceive the $90,000 held inher solicitors trust account. Should a costs order be made? Ofcourse, where the Court is of the opinion that there are circumstances thatjustify it in doing so, the Court may depart from thegeneral position that eachparty to proceedings under the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) bears his or herown costs. In such circumstances, the Court may make such order as to costs asthe Court considers just (s 117(1) and (2)). In considering what order as tocosts, if any, should be made the Court is required to have regard to thematters setout in s 117(2A) of the Family Law Act. Whilst six ofthe matters set out are specific, the final one gives the Court the fiat to haveregard to such other matters as the court considersrelevant. Forthe mother, it is submitted that the unreasonable behaviour of thefather has caused the mother to incuradditional costs and thatthis fact constitutes circumstances that justify the making of an order againsthim. It is submittedthat the fathers conduct, variously categorised,supports such a finding. In Ms Carews written submissions for themotherthose categories are listed as: (a) payment of the single expertreport writers fees; (b) the fathers failure to negotiate and the giving of conflictingadvices; (c) the fathers erratic appearances in Australia; (d) the fathers Hague Convention proceedings; (e) the fathers change of plans, failure to provide instructions tohis lawyers and his reneging on consent orders; (f) the fathers behaviour in relation to the change of thechildrens school; (g) unnecessary and inaccurate complaints by the father; (h) drawn out negotiations in relation to the proposed consent orders; (i) the fathers failure to comply with court orders anddirections; (j) the fathers generally unreasonable behaviour. Inaddition though, Ms Carew submits that the mothers particular financialcircumstances relevantly also support a costs orderbeing made against thefather, as well as the fathers relative lack of success in theproceedings when the outcome comparesto that which he was seeking at thecommencement. The fathers behaviour Themothers evidence about the fathers behaviour ranges over muchground. Essentially, it all goes towards supportingher submission that heincurred additional costs and outlays because of his behaviour that she wouldnot otherwise have had to bear. Inrespect to the costs of the single expert family report writer, for example, themothers evidence is that she had to ultimatelypay the sum of $2,200 forthe jointly commissioned updated family report, after the event, so that thecompleted report could bereleased, when the father would not pay his halfshare. She also had to pay the total of $1,732.50 for the same single expertfora mediation he conducted with the couple. This happened despite apparentagreement that the father would pay his half of those expenses,as well asrepeated assertions by him that he would  agreement which, I accept, heclearly did not honour. Thereis evidence, that I accept, that the father elected not to communicate with themothers solicitors when the dispute firsterupted (several months afterthe father had returned to Europe from the Gold Coast), simply turning up on theGold Coast expectingto spend time with the children without any priornegotiation around that issue when he knew solicitors had become involved. Ialso accept the mothers evidence that the father conducted himself in away that increased her reliance on lawyers at thattime, by following her in amenacing manner, waiting around outside her residence and trying to persuade herto enter into long termparenting arrangements with haste and under pressure. Iaccept that his behaviour prompted the mother to hire a private securitypersonat this time as she experienced it as intimidating, threatening and menacing.Whilst I have no doubt that the father was sufferingemotionally and missing hischildren, he was legally represented at the time, both in Country E and inAustralia. Despite that, Iam satisfied that his behaviour certainly,contributed to the additional reliance on her own solicitors by the mother and aconsequentialincrease in her costs. Theevidence also satisfies me that the fathers position in respect oftravelling to Australia, and the circumstances underwhich he wanted to see thetwo boys, did change erratically and at short notice in 2012, creating more needfor the mother to relyon her solicitors around that time. However, interimproceedings brought by the father at that time did secure some time for himwithhis boys. Additionally, the fathers apparent lack of communication withhis own solicitors demonstrated by the evidenceabout what happened around thetime of a scheduled mention of the matter in September 2012 led to further legalexpense for the mother. The father, who had participated in the proceedings in this Court to that time,then, apparently no longer content to accept thisCourts jurisdiction inrespect of the boys who had been living in Australia at that time for nearly 2years, having been broughtby both parents to Australia and who had startedliving here whilst the mother commenced university studies, agitated with theCountryE government to commence proceedings for the return of the boys toCountry E pursuant to the Hague Convention on the Civil Aspectsof InternationalChild Abduction. Those proceedings ultimately were determined by the AustralianGovernment to be abandoned by thefather, but even at the trial before me, I wasnot convinced that the father had given up the belief that he could enliven themagain,if he wanted to. I am satisfied that his conduct in this regard led toadditional legal fees being incurred by the mother. Thefather agreed to orders being made on 10 September 2012 that provided for familyreport interviews to take place at times specificto when he confirmed that hewould be in Australia. He then caused changes to be made to those arrangementsin a unilateral fashion,causing the mother more legal expenses having hersolicitors attempt to deal with the changes, before ultimately advising (notthroughhis solicitors) that he was not coming to Australia at that time anywaydue to ill health. The fathers solicitorssubsequentlyceased acting for him. Theparties then fell into dispute about the choice of school the boys were toattend in 2013. What I considered at the trial wasunreasonable conduct on thepart of the father around this issue, caused the mother further concern and needto revert to her solicitorsbefore the issue was ultimately resolved the way shehad proposed. Indeed, the father conceded at the trial that the mothersdecision in that regard had proven to be a fairly good one. Itwas, as has been submitted by Ms Carew, the fathersposition in respectof this change of school issue, that was a major factor in the singleexperts change of position in respectto the issue of parentalresponsibility and one of the factors that led me to determine that theboys best interests wouldbe served by the conferral of sole parentalresponsibility on the mother. Thereis evidence, that I accept, that the father complained by email to themothers solicitors in April 2013 about not havingspoken to the childrenwhen he had actually spoken to them only about an hour before sending the email.This sort of behaviour causedthe mother unnecessary legal expense. Iaccept the submission that the evidence establishes that between May andSeptember 2013 the father did not respond to various proposalsput to him by themothers solicitors, refused to communicate with the motherssolicitors, and agreed to come to Australiaon certain dates and then changedhis mind. It seems, on the fathers own evidence, that he was putting hiscommitments toskipper vessels in Europe ahead of dealing with the parentingissues. His behaviour in this regard caused the mother to incur additionallegalexpenses. Iaccept that the father did not comply with various directions and orders of theCourt throughout 2013 or was often late in doingso. I accept that these actionscaused the mother additional legal expense. Complaints,ultimately unsubstantiated, were made to the Legal Services Commission by thefather about the mothers solicitors.This caused the mother additionallegal expense. The fathers own actions in turning up outside themothers solicitorsoffices out of office hours and leavingmessages on the solicitors answering machine caused the mother additionallegal expense. A number of the matters that were left for the Court to determine at the trialafter agreement had been reached on many matterswere issues pursued by thefather that were not in any of the orders that he had formally sought and uponwhich he adduced little,if any, evidence. They were heard and determined simplybecause he raised them and I considered it in the childrens bestinterestsin such circumstances to hear and determine them. This added to thelegal expenses of the mother. I am also satisfied that the father did use the asserted co-existence ofproperty proceedings and Hague Convention proceedings inCountry E as a means ofpressing the mother for concessions that he sought in respect of parentingmatters and that most of the ordersultimately made, by consent or afterdetermination by the Court, could have been made earlier but for thefathers approachto the proceedings in this manner. Afterconsideration of these matters, I am satisfied, having regard to the fact thatcosts orders are about indemnifyingthe litigant in whose favourthey are made in respect of liabilities he or she has incurred with his or herown lawyers, that thecircumstances in this case do justify a departure from thegeneral position that each party to proceedings in this Court shall bearhis orher own costs. I consider that where additional legal costs are demonstrablyincurred by a party through the unreasonableconduct of the other party,recoupment of those costs from the party whose unreasonable conduct has causedthe incurrence of theexpense is appropriate and just. I am satisfied that acosts order should be made in this case. What should the costsorder be? Thereis a degree of artificiality in an application for an order that the father paythe mothers costs of the proceedingson either an indemnity basis or aparty/party basis but, in either case, limited to the amount of $90,000. If,however, the sentimentbehind asking for such an order is one that thefathers unreasonable behaviour is certainly responsible for a portion ofthemothers legal expenses and that $90,000, being only 22% of the totalof $392,000 in legal costs and outlays incurred by themother until the time ofthe delivery of the Judgment, represents a reasonable apportionment of thoseexpenses additionally incurredby her due to the fathers unreasonableconduct, as I expect it is, it is more readily understood. I am certainly not of the view that the father ought be held somehow responsiblefor all of the mothers legal expenses inthis case, but I am satisfiedthat he ought be ordered to pay her a sum of money that represents a portion ofthe costs she has incurredto indemnify her for those additionalcosts that she did incur as a consequence of the unreasonable behaviour thatIam satisfied he did display from time to time throughout the proceedings. TheFamily Law Rules 2004 (Cth) permit me to make an order that a party is entitledto costs of a specific amount. As such, I can order that the mother isentitledto costs of $90,000 or some other specific amount. Clearly, it would be a timeconsuming, laborious task to try to go throughthe mothers entire costsincurred over 2 years, listed out item by item, in an endeavour to assesswhether each item of costmay or may not have been a cost incurred due toparticularly unreasonable behaviour of the father. I will not make an order thatrequires that sort of process as it will just incur further costs for the motherthat she would be unlikely to recoup from the fatherin this case. As such, Iconsider the fixing of the costs the mother is entitled to in a specific amountis the most appropriateand just means of determining this application. Relevantalso, is the fact that the mother and the two boys are financially supported,and have been financially supported since thefather left Australia over threeyears ago, solely by the mothers parents. They too, have been the sourceof the money shehas paid her solicitors for their work. Apart from an amount of$5,000 the father paid the mother when he first came back to Australiaand hisfinancial support of the boys on the limited occasions they have been with him,he has made no other contribution to thefinancial support of the boys. Hisattitude to that matter demonstrated by his actions and his evidence given atthe trial left medespairing as to his commitment to, and acceptance of, theresponsibilities of parenthood. He would have me believe that he is inpoorfinancial circumstances himself. As I said to the father at the trial, thecircumstances presenting just leave me with no roombut to consider that he issimply not being truthful and frank with the Court about his financial positionand that he is actuallya man of some financial substance. I accept the submission that any order that the father pay the mother aspecific amount of costs is probably going to be impossibleto enforce againsthim if the money that is held in the trust account of the motherssolicitors is not accessible. Apart fromany interest the father has in thatmoney, he has no other property in Australia that I am aware of. He asserts themother has theproceeds of sale of the property they owned in Country E. Shedenies that. I do not, at this time, find that she does, but even ifshe does,the parties respective rights and entitlements to that remain to bedetermined in property adjustment proceedings,whatever jurisdiction suchproceedings might be held in. The$90,000 in the solicitors trust account is the sale proceeds of thevessel the parties travelled on to Australiafrom Europe. The mother saysthat the vessel was registered in her name and that it was sold by her with thefathers consentbefore the proceeds were deposited by her, without courtorder, into her solicitors trust account, where it has remained untouchedto this day. The father has not disputed the mothers assertion that thevessel was registered in her name. I understand thathe merely argues that themoney should remain untouched until such time as the parties agree on what is tohappen with it. Although as the registered owner of the vessel that was sold the mother mighthave an argument that the sale proceeds of the vesselare legally hers in anyevent, she nevertheless seeks an order that fixes the fathers liabilityto pay her costs in the proceedingsat $90,000 and discharges his liability byallowing her to access that money that is held in trust. Inthe circumstances of this case, I am quite satisfied that fixing the amount ofcosts the father is to pay the mother in the specificamount of $90,000 anddischarging his liability for that by ordering that the mother can access the$90,000 that is held in the trustaccount of her solicitors to meet that much ofher costs, is appropriate and just. Of course, whether there is merit in such an argument or not, thefathers rights to argue at some time in the future, inthis jurisdictionor another, that this determination is a matter of some relevance in thedetermination of property adjustment ordersthat are just and equitable asbetween him and the mother remain undisturbed. Imake the costs orders set out at the commencement of these Reasons. I certify that the preceding thirty-five (35) paragraphs are atrue copy of the reasons for judgment of the Honourable Justice Forrestdelivered on 28 October 2014. Associate: Date: 28October 2014 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/916.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         