FAMILY LAW  PROPERTYSETTLEMENT IN RELATION TO MARRIAGE  Where the parties were married forthree years  Wherethere are no children of the marriage  Wherethe wife seeks 50 per cent of the matrimonial pool  Where the husbandseeks that he retain the main assets of the pool and pay the wife a small sum Where the wife earned significantly more thanthe husband throughoutthe marriage and provided the main financial support to the household Where the asset pool is modestand made up of two assets bought into themarriage by the husband  Where the wife made little or no contribution tothe mainassets  Where the contributions of the husband were found toexceed those of the wife, being 70 per cent compared to 30 percent by the wife Where the wife is 23 years older than the husband  Where the wifehas suffered a very serious anddebilitating illness and has compromised mentalhealth  Where the husband has not given proper financial disclosureWhere an adjustment of 5 per cent to the wife is justified by referenceto considerations arising from s 79(4)(e)  Where anorder is madefor the wife to receive a payment reflecting 35 per cent of value of the assetpool. Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) ss 79, 75 FamilyLaw Rules 2004 (Cth) Aleksovski & Aleksovski (1996) FLC 92-705 Bevan & Bevan [2013] FamCAFC 116; (2013) FLC 93-545 Biltoft& Biltoft [1995] FamCA 45; (1995) FLC 92-614 Cerini & Cerini [1998] FamCA143 Stanford v Stanford [2012] HCA 52; (2012) 247 CLR 108 APPLICANT: Ms Paladini RESPONDENT: Mr Paladini INTERVENER: B Trust T/As C Law Firm FILENUMBER: SYC 1179 of 2009 DATE DELIVERED: 17 October 2014 PLACE DELIVERED: Sydney PLACE HEARD: Sydney JUDGMENT OF: Loughnan J HEARING DATE: 29  30 September 2014 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: Ms Steggall RESPONDENT: In Person COUNSEL FOR THEINTERVENER: Mr OBrien SOLICITOR FOR THE INTERVENER: C Law Firm ORDERS (1) The parties shall forthwithdo all things and sign all documents necessary to authorise the disbursement ofthe funds held ontrust for the husband by C Law Firm asfollows: (a) The sum of$54,525 to the wife or as she may direct in writing; and (b) The balanceto the husband. (2) The husband and the wife are each otherwise declared to be the sole legaland beneficial owner of all real and personal propertyincluding but not limitedto superannuation, insurance policies, savings, chattels and personal effectscurrently in the possessionor control of each of them respectively. (3) In the event either party refuses or neglects to execute any deed orinstrument necessary to give effect to these Orders, theRegistrar of the Courtbe and is hereby appointed pursuant to s 106A of the Act to execute such deed orinstrument in the name ofeither party and to do all other acts and thingsnecessary to give validity and operation to the said deed orinstrument. IT IS NOTED that publication of this judgmentby this Court under the pseudonym Paladini & Paladini and Anor hasbeen approved by the Chief Justice pursuant to s 121(9)(g) of the Family LawAct 1975 (Cth). FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT SYDNEY FILE NUMBER:SYC 1197 of 2009 Ms Paladini Applicant And Mr Paladini Respondent REASONS FOR JUDGMENT INTRODUCTION Theseare proceedings in relation to property settlement where the applicant wifeseeks a payment representing 50 per cent of thevalue of the matrimonial assetsand the respondent husband seeks an order that he retain the main assets and paythe wife a smallsum. Theparties relationship spanned less than four years and there are nochildren of the marriage. Althoughthere was an intervener in the proceedings, the issues relevant to thatintervener were finalised by orders made on the firstday of the trial. Where Irefer in these reasons to the parties, I mean the wife and husband. APPLICATIONS Thewife sought orders in terms of a Minute included in her Case Outline documentdated 26 September 2014 as follows: (reproduced as original) Thatthe Interveners application be dismissed. Thatthe Intervener transfer to the Wife 50% of the net asset pool as defined by theWife in the Balance Sheet annexed hereto andmarked A. Thatthe Husband pay the Wifes costs of the proceedings. Theorders sought by the husband were set out in a document submitted on the secondmorning of the trial[1]. The documentis discursive and includes commentary as well as sentences that could bedescribed as orders sought. Among a listof grievances, I understand thedocument to say that the husband would like an order restraining the wife fromcommencing any proceedingsagainst him or members of his family. At the foot ofthe first page is a wording that seems to be an alternate property settlementproposal, whereby each party retains what they have. In the course of finalsubmissions I understood the husband to propose thatthe parties retain whatthey have and responsibility for what they owe and that there be a payment tothe wife from the funds heldon trust, amounting to 25 per cent of that fund. Icalculated that to represent about $22,649. DOCUMENTS READ Theparties relied on the following documents: Documents relied on bythe applicant wife: Affidavit of thewife filed 21 August 2014; and FinancialStatement of the wife filed 2 May 2014. Documentsrelied on by the respondent husband: Affidavit of thehusband filed 21 August 2014; Affidavit of MsG filed 20 March 2014; and FinancialStatement of the husband filed 1 April 2014. THE HEARING Thecase was listed for final hearing over two days commencing on 29 September2014. Whenthe hearing commenced the husband said that he had not received the wifesaffidavit. He conceded that the email addressto which it was sent on11 September 2014 was his but said that he does not have a computer. Inrespect of postal service, the wifeprepared an affidavit of service evidencingservice on the husband by mail to a Brisbane address on 21 August 2014. Thehusbandconceded that to be his address for service but denied receiving thedocument. There was no challenge to the wifes evidenceabout service. Iam satisfied that the husband was served in accordance with the Family Law Rules2004 (Cth). Itshould be noted that the husband conducted the hearing without legalrepresentation. He did not bring all relevant documents toCourt; he did nothave a document setting out the orders he sought and he said he had not read therelevant provisions of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) (theAct). English is not the husbands first language. Notwithstanding the practical and cooperative approachof learned counsel forthe wife, it is an understatement to say that the husband was under aconsiderable disadvantage during thetrial. During the trial the husbandreferred to the difficulties for him in conducting the proceedings. I remindedhim that onan earlier date he had rejected the wifes proposal for therelease of $20,000 to each party from funds held on trust and observedthat hecould have secured legal representation with those funds. In any event he couldhave formally sought the release of fundsfor that purpose. Thesolicitors who acted for the husband in personal injury proceedings intervenedin the proceedings, seeking their costs of thoseproceedings. Beforethe commencement of oral evidence, the issue of the interveners claim wassettled and orders were made by consent inthe following terms: Byconsent, orders are made in accordance with the document titledOrder (Exhibit 2 dated 29 September 2014), as setouthereunder: That[C Law Firm], Solicitors, be permitted to appropriate $43,298.49 of the fundsheld in their trust account on account of theircosts of acting for theRespondent. Thatthe Respondent pay [T Firm] $3,599.20 from the property that the Respondentreceives subject to any orders made in these proceedingswithin seven (7) daysof receiving that property. Withrespect to the Interveners application, each party bear their owncosts. Leaveis granted to the wife to inspect documents produced to the Court in response tosubpoena to [C Law Firm]. Thereuponthe interveners counsel was given leave to withdraw. On30 September 2014 judgment was reserved. SHORT HISTORY Thewife was born in 1952 and at the date of the hearing she was 62 years of age. The husband was born in Italy in 1975 and at thedate of the hearing he was 39years of age. Theparties commenced cohabitation in December 2004, married in May 2005 andseparated on 27 May 2008. There are no children of themarriage. BACKGROUND FACTS Thewife was married twice before meeting the husband and has three adult childrenof her second marriage. Theparties were introduced by a mutual friend in April 2004 and commenced arelationship in approximately August 2004. Atthe commencement of the relationship, the wife was working as a legalprofessional running her own practice. She lived in a rentedproperty in SuburbL with her son A and conducted her practice from home. It is the wifesevidence that for the year ended30 June 2005 her business was on trackto earn gross fees exceeding $300,000, however the overheads were high. Thewife deposed that she did not have any superannuation. She was thensupporting two children at university and one at a private school. Thewife deposed that at the commencement of the relationship, the husband had movedto Australia from Italy and was on his secondholiday visa. He spoke littleEnglish and could not read English. It is the wifes evidence and I donot understand it tobe controversial, that the terms of his visa prohibited himfrom working in Australia. In any event the husband had little money. The wifeassisted the husband with his visa and residence applications. Inmid-2004, the parties travelled to New Zealand in order for the husband to applyfor a further visa. The wife deposed that shepaid all expenses of the tripincluding flights, accommodation and the visa application expenses. The husbandwas granted a workingholiday visa that permitted him to stay in Australia forone year and work casually for up to three months at a time. Afterobtaining his visa, the husband lived rent free with a young Italian couple inSuburb L and worked for three months at a localhospitality business. The wifewas not challenged on her evidence that he earned approximately $200 aweek. Thewife deposed that in early December 2004 she rented a unit for the husband inSuburb H and paid all expenses for the unit includingthe bond, rent of $290 aweek, electricity and furniture expenses. It is the wifes evidence thatshe could not afford topay two lots of rent and that cohabitation commenced inlate December 2004 when the wife moved in with the husband. At that timethewifes son, A, moved in with his father. The wife said that she routinelypaid most household expenses including payingfor dinners out and groceryexpenses. It is the wifes evidence that she did some of the houseworkand the husband did thecooking. It is the husbands evidence that heperformed all of the cooking, cleaning and other household duties. I understoodthe husband to reject the wifes evidence that she paid for most of theparties expenses. Theparties were married in May 2005. The wife deposed that she paid all expensesfor the wedding and honeymoon. Followingthe parties marriage, the husband applied for a Temporary Partner Visawhich was granted on 20 September 2005. Thewife deposed that she paid all feesassociated with the visa application. Thehusband was granted permanent residency in Australia in November 2007. Duringthe marriage the wife supported the husbands desire to become aprofessional entertainer. She said that she paid allexpenses associated withthis venture including lessons, backing tracks, production of brochures, CDs,cards, clothing and shoes. She said that she also created a fan club, wrote andsent out regular newsletters and organised concerts for him to sing at. Thewife referred to a concert at a venue in Suburb H, she said that she organisedevery element of the concert and that over 140 peoplecame. The husband agreedwith some but not all of that evidence. In particular he conceded that the wifepaid for backing tracks,some advertising and that she established the fanclub. InFebruary 2006 the wife was declared bankrupt on her own petition. Shortlybefore declaring bankruptcy, the wife closed her homepractice and commencedwork as a consultant with M Firm. She took her files with her and shared feesequally with the firm. Thewife lost many clients and gradually her incomedecreased. The wife said she could no longer afford to meet the husbandsentertainment expenses. The wife deposed that she sold her collection ofantique items for $5,000 and this money went to the husband. I understood thehusband to dispute that evidence but he was obliged to concede that a littleover $5,000 was paid into his CommonwealthBank savings account. InApril 2006 the husband flew to Italy for one week to visit his uncle who wasunwell. The wife said she organised and paid forthe husbands flights. The husband later inherited from his uncle a property situated in the commercialdistrict of City Y,Italy (the Italian property). The wifedeposed that the husband told her the property was part of a shop and thatthedownstairs of the shop was on three titles. She deposed that the husband saidhe was left one title which was bigger than theother two titles together andthat his uncle left money to his father and that his father wanted to buy theuncles flat fromthe government but did not have enough money to do so. The wife deposed that she and the husband decided that the rental incomefromthe shop should go to the husbands father to help him buy the flat. Thehusband disputes this and says that he signedhis rights in the property over tohis brother on 14 January 2008, before receiving confirmation that he was abeneficiary underhis uncles will. The husband commissioned avaluation[2] of the property datedApril 2011 which put the property at 43,465.65. That is the agreed valueof the property. Atthe end of 2006 the parties decided to move to Brisbane. On moving to Brisbane,the wife worked at a firm called Q Firm, earning$45,000 per annum. The husbandmoved to Brisbane in January 2007 after finishing a casual job in Sydney. Theparties moved intoa rental property in Suburb S, paying approximately $375 aweek in rent. Thewife deposed that while in Brisbane the husband engaged in minimal paid work. He was given a casual position as an entertainerand participated inperformances over a period of two weeks. The wife deposed he was paidapproximately $29 per hour for his performances. InJuly 2007 the husbands father became ill and the husband visited him inItaly. The wife deposed that she sold a mahoganybookcase in order to fund thehusbands travel. She gave him $1,300 for fares and $1,000 for expenses. Sadly, the husbandsfather died in December 2007. InJanuary 2008 the husband commenced work at SS Company. The husband was injuredat work on 13 March 2008 and attended various medicalprofessionals. The wifedeposed that she assisted the husband with all medical care and with legal workresulting from the accident. The husband deposed that the wife did not assisthim after the injury. Thewife deposed that after a confrontation with her in mid April 2008 and inaccordance with her request, the husband left theirBrisbane home. The wifechanged the locks, resigned from her job and flew back to Sydney in thefollowing week. Thewife deposed that the husband called her when she returned to Sydney and askedher to come back to Brisbane. The wife says sheagreed to return on thecondition that the husband paid the rent and provided her with the address ofthe Italian property. Thewife says that the husband did both things and thatshe returned to Brisbane, where the parties briefly resumed their relationship.The parties separated for the last time, on 27 May 2008. The separation date isnot addressed in the husbands affidavitbut I note that the date isasserted in the wifes Initiating Application and in his Amended Responsefiled 23 February 2011,the husband formallyconfirmed[3] that he does not disputeany facts alleged in the wifes Application. Thewife returned to live in Sydney on 5 June 2008. She deposed that she had nomoney, minimal furniture, nowhere to live and wasunable to work as she was in astate of shock. The wife received a sickness benefit before obtaining part timework. The wife wassubsequently diagnosed with Post Traumatic Stress andcommenced receiving a disability pension. On27 August 2008 C Law Firm were retained to represent the husband in a personalinjuries claim arising out of his workplace accident. Thewife commenced these proceedings in the Federal Magistrates Court (as theFederal Circuit Court was then known) on 3 March 2009,when she filed herInitiating Application. She sought orders for property settlement (the transferof the Italian property and 50per cent of the balance of the husbandsassets). She also sought interim orders aimed at preventing the husband leavingAustralia. On15 July 2009 interim orders were made restraining the husband from dealing withthe property in Italy, in any way. Theparties were divorced on 3 October 2009. Afterseparation the husband commenced a relationship with Ms X. He continues to livewith her, in accommodation owned by her andher parents in Brisbane. Thehusband and Ms X have a child. In2012 the wife commenced studying a masters degree at a university inSydney. InSeptember 2012 the wife was diagnosed with early breast cancer and underwent twooperations followed by chemotherapy and radiotherapy. On16 July 2013 C Law Firm received on behalf of the respondent, a letter of offerto settle his personal injury proceedings for thesum of $163,750. Therespondent accepted the offer on 19 July 2013. Sadly,in August 2013 the wifes mother died. The wife deposed that sheanticipates receiving a small inheritance from herestate. On17 March 2014 C Law Firm negotiated a contribution from the second defendant inthe respondents personal injury proceedingsin the sum of $36,000. On27 May 2014 C Law Firm issued the respondent an invoice for $83,298.46 inrespect of the legal work associated with the personalinjury proceedings, whichwas inclusive of professional fees, disbursements and GST. On8 May 2014 the Court made an order allowing the intervener to appropriate$40,000 of the moneys it held on trust for the respondent,on account of thefees owing. Thewife deposed that she currently pays $300 per week in rent, she has nosignificant assets and a Higher Education Loan Program(HELP)liability to the Australian Taxation Office for university fees of approximately$34,000. The husband allegedthat the wife owns various assets that are instorage, and was concealing an interest in superannuation. Thehusband lives with his partner, Ms X, and has no income. CREDIT Thehusband sought to make something of an earlier representation of the wife, thatshe owed $20,000 to her trustee in bankruptcy. It is the wifes evidencethat she believed that notwithstanding she was made bankrupt, she continued toowe $20,000 to hertrustee in bankruptcy. She said that she has been disabusedof that notion and now does not claim to owe such a debt. No adversecreditfindings are available on that evidence. Thehusband disputed that he benefited from the sale of the wifes antiqueitems but the proceeds of sale went into his savingaccount. It is likely thatthe husband set out to mislead the Court on that issue. Notwithstanding thosecircumstances, it is notpossible to simply prefer the evidence of one partyover that of the other on all disputed issues. ISSUES Therewere issues between the parties about the assets and liabilities to be includedin the balance sheet used to identify the netpool of assets. In particular thehusband contended for, and the wife opposed, the inclusion of a number of assetsand several liabilitiesin the balance sheet. The wife contended that thecontributions were equal and the husband argued that the wife made nocontributions. Albeit justified in different ways and in different amounts,each of the parties ultimately proposed an adjustment to the wife. THE LAW The Approach In Proceedings Under Section 79 Inthe context of these proceedings s 79 of the Act relevantlyprovides: FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 - SECTION 79 Alteration of propertyinterests (1) In propertysettlement proceedings, the courtmay make such order as it considers appropriate: (a) in the case of proceedingswith respect to the propertyof the parties to the marriageor either of them - altering the interestsof the parties to the marriagein the property;or .... including: (c) an order for a settlement of propertyin substitution for any interestin the property;and (d) an order requiring: (i) either or both of the parties to the marriage;... .... to make, for the benefit of either or both of the parties to the marriageor a childof the marriage,such settlement or transferof propertyas the courtdetermines. .... (2) The courtshall not make an order under this section unless it is satisfied that, in allthe circumstances, it is just and equitableto make the order. (4) In considering what order (if any) should be madeunder this section in propertysettlement proceedings, the courtshall takeinto account: (a) the financial contribution madedirectly or indirectly by or on behalf of a partyto the marriageor a childof the marriageto the acquisition, conservation or improvement of any of the propertyof the parties to the marriageor either of them, or otherwisein relation to any of that last-mentioned property,whether or not that last-mentioned propertyhas, since the making of the contribution,ceased to be the propertyof the parties to the marriageor either of them; and (b) the contribution (other than a financial contribution) madedirectly or indirectly by or on behalf of a partyto the marriageor a childof the marriageto the acquisition, conservation or improvement of any of the propertyof the parties to the marriageor either of them, or otherwise in relation to any of that last-mentioned property,whether or not that last-mentioned propertyhas,since the making of the contribution, ceased to be the propertyof the parties to the marriageor either of them; and (c) the contribution madeby a partyto the marriageto the welfare of the family constituted by the parties to the marriageandany childrenof the marriage,including any contribution madein the capacity of homemaker or parent;and (d) the effect of any proposed order upon the earning capacity ofeither partyto the marriage;and (e) the matters referred to in subsection 75(2)so far as they are relevant; and (f) any other order madeunder thisActaffecting a partyto the marriageor a childof the marriage;and (g) any childsupport under the ChildSupport (Assessment) Act 1989 that a partyto the marriagehas provided, is to provide, or might be liable to provide in the future, for achildof the marriage. Theorders formally sought by the husband raise the issue of whetherany order should be made altering the partiesinterests in property. Thehusbands case was something of a moving feast but his proposals includedthe option of there beingno adjustment of property. Followinga decision of the High Court in Stanford v Stanford [2012] HCA 52; (2012) 247 CLR 108,consideration has been given as a preliminary issue, to whether it would be justand equitable to make any order for settlementof property. In that case and ina subsequent decision of the Full Court of this Court in Bevan &Bevan [2013] FamCAFC 116; [2013] FLC 93-545 it was found that it was not just andequitable to make any order altering the parties interests in property. However, it was found in thosecases that the circumstances giving rise to sucha finding, as a preliminary issue, are rare. The consideration as a preliminaryissue of whether it would be just and equitable to make an order is oftenreadily addressed. Here,the marriage was short, the main assets were brought in through the husband andthey remain in his name. However, I am satisfiedthat valuable contributionswere made by the wife. By his final submissions, the husband appeared toacknowledge that it would notbe just and equitable for the wife to receivenothing from the funds held on trust. I agree. In my view, it would be justand equitablethat the parties have relief under s 79. Iturn to the task of identifying just and equitable orders altering the interestsof the parties in property. I will set out thereasoning process in thefollowing way: Makefindings as to the identity and value of the property, liabilities and financialresources of the parties at the date of thehearing; Identifyand assess the contributions of the parties within the meaning of ss 79(4)(a),(b) and (c) and determine the contribution based entitlements of the partiesexpressed as a percentage of the net value of the propertyof the parties; Identifyand assess the relevant matters referred to in ss 79(4)(d), (e), (f) and (g),(the other factors) including, because of s 79(4)(e), the mattersreferred to in s 75(2) so far as they are relevant and determine the adjustment(if any) that should be made to the contribution based entitlements of theparties; and Considerthe effect of those findings and determinations and resolve what order is justand equitable in all the circumstances ofthe case. THE PROPERTY OF THE PARTIES Indetermining what order is appropriate, it is necessary to make a finding as tothe property of the parties. That involves identifyingassets, liabilities andfinancial resources and their values. Thehusband did not join in the pre-trial process of settling a joint balance sheet.In the course of the trial and during submissionsvarious contentions wereadvanced by the parties as follows: Assets Owner Description Wifes value Husbands value H Italian property, agreed 43,465.65. (At the exchange rate of .6862 on 29September) $63,343 $63,343 H Trust moneys held by C Law Firm ($133,894 - $43,298.49) $90,595.51 $90,595.51 W Household contents $5,000 NK H Household contents $5,000 NK W Car 0 $5,000 W Italian paintings 0 NK W 5 art sculptures 0 NK Total $163,938.51 $158,938.51 Liabilities Owner Description Wifes value Husbands value H Board and lodgings  Mr and Mrs X 0 $68,870 H Legal fees  John R Quinn 0 $2,354.50 H Legal fees  O Firm 0 $7,197.18 H Loan from Mr P (and others) 0 $13,292 H T Firm 0 $3,599.20 Total Nil $95,312.88 Superannuation Owner Description Wifes value Husbands value W NK H Australian Super accumulation $1,845.55 $1,845.55 Total $1,845.55 $1,845.55 Asto the issues about the balance sheet: Item 2  The Italian property Theevidence about the Italian property is confusing. It appears that the husbandinherited the property from an uncle and that therewere arrangements within thehusbands extended family, including efforts to facilitate thehusbands father buying aninterest in a related property and about thehusband renouncing the inheritance. At paragraph 12 of his affidavit thehusband contendsthat his uncle owned the property and he died in May 2006. Thehusband deposed[4] that hesigned all my rights over to my brother in 2008. He does notspecify what rights he signed over and says thathe did not receive confirmationor proof that he had inherited from his uncle until 13 March 2011. Importantlyand definitively, I asked the husband whether he continues to be the registeredowner of the property and he agreed. Priorto the trial, the wife indicated that she agreed with the valuation asserted bythe husband for the property at 43,465.65. During the trial thewifes counsel provided a sheet of current exchange rates as an aidememoir. On that basis the valueis recorded as an agreed figure of $63,343(based on the exchange rate of .6862 on 29 September2014). Item 2  Trust account Thesettlement was approximately $200,000. For the purposes of the trial thebalance of the fund stood at $133,894. In the courseof final submissions thehusband expressed a concern that the balance of the account might be about$20,000 less that it appeared,saying that he had been told that he wouldreceive of the order of a net $70,000 from the fund. Learned counsel for thewife contactedthe solicitors over a luncheon adjournment was not told of anychange to the figure in evidence in the form of a statement of thetrust accountthat formed part of the bundle of documents tendered by the solicitors that madeup exhibit 1. That statement putthe balance of the funds at $133,894. Pursuantto an order made by consent on the first day of the trial the parties authorisedthe solicitors holding the funds to draw$43,298.49 in respect of the balance oftheir fees. That would leave $90,595.51 in the account. I find that afterthe legal costshave been withdrawn, the balance of the fund will be$90,595.51. Items 3 & 4  Household contents Notwithstandingthat the figures were proposed in her case, the submission on behalf of the wifeis that these items should be omitted. The wifes version of the jointbalance sheet had both items at $5,000 but it was submitted that there is noadmissible evidencesupporting those values. The husband did not agree with thewifes proposed figure for household contents and did not advanceanyevidence of valuation. The husband complained that the wife had causedhousehold contents to be stored at her mothersproperty in rural NewSouth Wales. I suspect that he was also referring to others items ofpersonalty, such as art works. He reliedon a document executed by thewifes brother[5] in respect ofhis contention about the value of personalty in the wifes possession orcontrol. During his cross-examinationof the wife the husband put a series ofquestions that seemed to be aimed at the proposition  how couldthere be novaluable personalty (as the wife contends) when it cost you $11,000to move it and it required storage in [rural New South Wales],both in yourmothers shed and in a storage facility. The wifes responsewas to the effect that the $11,000plus, she borrowed from her mother wasapplied not only to her removal expenses when she moved from Brisbane but alsoto her livingexpenses and that a further $3,000 went to pay for a course aimedat preparing her to teach English as a second language. Therethe topic wasleft. I cannot make findings, based on that evidence, that there are valuableitems of personalty; let alone whatthey are or what they are worth. Iwill not include provision for household contents in the balancesheet. Item 5  Car Itis the husbands submission that an allowance should be made in thebalance sheet for a motor vehicle, owned by the wifethat has subsequently beensold. He contended, without any complaint advanced on behalf of the wife, thatthe vehicle had been soldby the wife for $5,000. Insome cases, an allowance is made in the balance sheet drawn up for the purposesof s 79 proceedings, for assets that no longer exist. As I understand the stateof the authorities on this issue, there are no circumstanceswhereby add-backsmust be included, nor are add-backs proscribed in all situations. However, theyhave been found to be theexception rather than the rule...Cerini & Cerini [1998] FamCA 143. Thereis no evidence to suggest that the $5,000 is represented by any existing asset. Life goes on after separation and the necessarypriority is to identify theassets that exist at the time of the hearing. There would not normally be anadd-back for funds appliedto living expenses. I will not make provision in thebalance sheet for the proceeds of sale of the motorvehicle. Item 6  Italian Paintings Thehusband put to the wife in cross-examination that during the marriage she haddecorated her work premises with original paintings. The wife said that sheplaced prints on the walls, including a print of a Picasso painting but saidthat she did not have any originalpaintings. There is no evidence to identifythe paintings to which the husband seeks to refer or their value. I will notincludethis item in the balance sheet. It is inherently unlikely that thewife, who came into the marriage as a single mother, living inrented premises,owned or was subsequently able to afford, original works by Picasso or any othergreat artist. Item 7  5 Art Sculptures Thehusband asserts that the wife has some sculptures. He was asked incross-examination about the particular sculptures and describeda sculpture of ahawk. There is no evidence to identify the sculptures or their value. I willnot include this item in the balancesheet. The wifes HELP debt Thewife gave evidence of a debt to the Commonwealth for her university courses ofnearly $34,000. However, her counsel said thedebt was not claimed to be ajoint debt nor one to which the husband should contribute. I will not includethe debt in the balancesheet used to identify the net matrimonialassets. The wifes legal fees Thewife owes $21,560 in counsels fees for the hearing. Again, her counselsaid the debt was not claimed to be a joint debtnor one to which the husbandshould contribute at this stage of the proceedings. I will not include the debtin the balance sheetused to identify the net matrimonialassets. Item 8  Board and lodgings Asa very general proposition, debts necessarily incurred for living expenses wouldnormally be included in the balance sheet createdfor section 79 proceedings. It is the husbands case that he has lived with the X family since May2008. Although they are not married,he is in a relationship with Ms X and heand Ms X have a child. The husband contends that he owes $64,870 to the parentsof Ms X. The husband relies on a statutorydeclaration[6] that was prepared andexecuted on 11 November 2013, to evidence a debt that he says, has accrued sinceMay 2008 and which is ongoing. The debt was fixed by that statutory declarationat $64,870 on 11 November 2013. Thereare a number of problems with this claim. There is no evidence about how thedebt was originally established. It is said tobe evidenced by a documentcreated more than five years after the debt is said to have commenced. Althoughhe does not specify whatit is, the husband contends that the debt is in factgreater than the claimed $64,870 because it continues to grow. The debt isreferred to in the husbands Financial Statement at paragraph 53 at$64,870, notwithstanding that Financial Statement was sworn28 March 2014. It is however, not mentioned in Part F of his Financial Statement where thehusband was obliged to set out expensespaid by others for his benefit, nor atPart G where his personal expenses should be set out. The husband conceded incross-examinationthat the asserted debt is not mentioned at all in hisFinancial Statements filed in 2009 and 2011. The fact that the husband onlyclaims the debt as it was asserted to stand at November 2013 was raised with thehusband, including in final submissions. He respondedto the effect that hecould not calculate the current balance. It was pointed out that if that wasso, then perhaps there is nodebt. Thereis no credible evidence of how the alleged debt was established nor as to itsterms. That gives rise to the concern that thedebt is a matter of recentinvention and/or that it is not owed or in any event, that it will not beenforced. Even if the debtis established, in those circumstances the Court hasdiscretion to exclude it from the relevant balancesheet[7]. I will not include this asa relevant debt. Item 9  Legal fees  John R Quinn Thehusband owes John R Quinn & Associates, $2,354.50 for legal fees associatedwith these proceedings. The time for considerationof the legal fees of theparties in the subject proceedings, if ever, is within the context of a costsapplication under s 117 of the Act. To include the parties liabilitiesfor legal fees in the balance sheet could have the effect of requiring onepartyto contribute to the legal costs of the other, outside the parameters of a costsapplication. I will not include the husbandslegal costs in the balancesheet. Itis appropriate to note that had the husbands liability been included, thewife would be entitled to include in the balancesheet, provision for her legalfees of $21,560[8]. Item 10  Legal fees  O Firm Thehusband owes O Firm $7,197.18 for legal fees associated with proceedings in theNSW Supreme Court to which the husband and wifeare parties. As I understandit, those proceedings are ongoing. In the ordinary course, the forum fordisputes about the costsof proceedings is the Court in which the proceedingsare instituted. I will not include the husbands legal costs in thebalancesheet. Item 11  Loan from Mr P Thehusband contends that he owes $13,292 to members of his family. There isevidence of the transmission of funds to thehusband[9] but no evidence of theagreement or agreements that established the nature of the transactions, letalone any evidence of the termsof any agreements in respect of thetransactions. I will not include the alleged debts in the balance sheet. Inthis regard there is also the confusing evidence about rental income from thehusbands property in Italy. The only evidenceabout that income is thatthe parties agreed that it would be allocated to the husbands father. Since his death questionsarise about that income. It is certainly not broughtto account otherwise in the husbands financial disclosure. One canonlyspeculate but if the husband has a debt to members of his family, perhaps thereis a set off or another fund from which thatdebt could beaddressed. Item 12  T Firm Thehusband claims that he owes $3,599.20 to T Firm for work associated with hispersonal injury claim. In the orders made on 29September 2014 the husbandagreed to take responsibility for that debt. I was told by learned counsel forthe wife that therebythe husband agreed that the debt would not be included inthe balance sheet. When I raised that matter with the husband I understoodhimto confirm that proposition. I will not include the debt in the balancesheet. Item 13  Wifes Superannuation Itis part of the husbands case that the wife has a superannuation interestor superannuation interests. To be fair I understandhis case to be no morethan  the wife has worked for many years and therefore she must have avaluable superannuation interest. It is the wifes evidence that she hadno superannuation interests when the parties met and that she subsequently builtupa modest entitlement that she cashed in after separation. At annexure K toher affidavit there are statements from AMP revealingthat as at 14 February2011 she had no superannuation entitlement and noting that she had withdrawn atotal of $3,050.52 since 1July 2010. There is no evidence that the wife has asuperannuation interest. Item 14  Husbands Superannuation Thehusbands superannuation interest is agreed at $1,845.55. Ifind that the relevant assets and liabilities are as follows: Assets Owner Description Value H Italian property, agreed 43,465.65. At the exchange rate of .6862 on 29September) $63,343 H Trust moneys held by C Law Firm ($133,894 - $43,298.49) $90,595.51 H Superannuation $1,845.55 Total $155,784.06 Net assets Therelevant assets have a value of $155,784.06 of which $1,845.55 is in the form ofsuperannuation. There are no relevant liabilities. Financial Resources Thewife has an expectation arising from the death of her mother. Her mother diedin August 2013. There is no authoritative evidenceabout the likely benefit tothe wife. It is her evidence that her mothers estate is valued at about$180,000. The wife saysshe is one of six children and that there is achallenge to her mothers will by a former partner. Thehusband is in a relationship with Ms X. There is evidence that she is on thetitle of real estate in Queensland with her parents. There is no evidence as tothe significance of that potential resource. For example, there is no evidenceof the value of the propertyor of the extent to which it may be encumbered, letalone any other evidence about the financial circumstances of Ms X. Thestate of the evidence does not permit any significance being attached to thosematters. CONTRIBUTIONS Theobligations placed on the Court by s 79 call for an assessment of the respectivecontributions by and on behalf of the husband and wife. Ina sense there is an issue about the way in which contributions should betreated. It is the husbands contention (as opposedto his evidence) thatthe wife made no contributions at all. The submission made in the wifescase is that the contributionsshould be seen as equal. Thepool of assets is modest and although the wife made little or no contribution tothe main assets, on balance the best course isto apply the provisions of s79(4) globally. Section 79(4)(a) Contributions Thefocus of this provision is financial contributions madedirectly or indirectly by or on behalf of a partyto the marriageto theacquisition, conservation or improvement of any of the propertyof the parties to the marriageor either of them, whether or notthat propertyhas ceased to be the propertyof the parties to the marriageor either of them. Theparties had little property at the commencement of their relationship. Whatthere was, in terms of furniture and other personaltywas that of the wife. Forthe purposes of these proceedings, those assets have no remaining value but thatdoes not detract fromthe contribution made and it was the sole contribution ofthe wife. It is the wifes evidence that she had no superannuationinterests at the commencement of the relationship. Other than the two remainingitems of property, there is no evidence that theparties acquired anysignificant assets during the marriage. The wife acquired a modestsuperannuation interest during the marriageand accessed that interest afterseparation in 2010-2011 and applied it to her own purposes. Thetwo substantial assets are the husbands Italian property and theremainder of the husbands personal injuries settlementheld in the trustaccount of C Law Firm. Neither of the parties made any contribution to theItalian property as it was inheritedby the husband. In accordance with thetime-honoured approach it must be seen as an asset brought to the marriage bythe husbandand therefore, his contribution. There was no direct or indirectfinancial contribution to the property by the wife. Similarly,the personal injuries award arose from a workplace injury suffered by thehusband and should be largely, if not exclusivelyseen as hiscontribution[10]. The personalinjuries payment resulted from a settlement and therefore there are noidentified components of an award such as forpain and suffering; loss of pastincome; loss of future income or any identified allowance for care provided tothe husband. Thewife made no direct financial contribution to that settlement.There is no evidence to suggest that in the two months between thedate of theinjury and the final separation of the parties, the wife made any significantindirect financial contribution to thesettlement. The accident occurred inMarch 2008 and the parties separated on 27 May 2008. As the wife deposed, sherequired thehusband to leave their Brisbane accommodation in mid-April and fromsoon after that until a date later in April or in May of 2008(a date notidentified in the evidence), the wife was in Sydney. The wife says that thehusband brought the rent up to date, asa condition of her returning to live inBrisbane. I note the evidence[11]of the husbands receipt of workers compensation payments from 14 March2008 to 21 April 2008 and he had two days work in earlyMay. Theoverwhelming financial contribution to assets was made by the husband. Section 79(4)(b) Contributions Thisprovision deals with direct and indirect non-financial contributions to theacquisition, conservation or improvement of any ofthe propertyof the parties to the marriageor either of them (other than those made in the form of parent and homemakercontributions). Thehusband alone contributed to his superannuation. Again the only significantassets are the Italian property and the personalinjuries settlement. There wasno direct or indirect non-financial contribution by the wife to the Italianproperty. Asto the personal injuries award, it is the wifes evidence that she filledin forms for the husband and assisted him attendingdoctors, the Hospital andthat she arranged for physiotherapy. She arranged for the husband to seelawyers, took him to see tradeunion officials and wrote numerous letters to thehusbands former employer. There is no evidence that those arrangementswere in support of the personal injuries claim. Indeed the timing would suggestthat they were more to do with initial treatmentand an application for workerscompensation. Finally, I may be wrong but far from supporting thehusbands personal injuriesclaim, I understood from something said duringthe trial, that the wife considered the claim to be fraudulent. As I say, Icouldbe wrong about that. Asto physical support, the wifes evidence leaves little scope for thisargument. She would have it that the husbandsinjuries were minor. Itis the wifes evidence that the husband suffered bruised ribs and stayedhome for three or four daysand gradually recovered. The wife deposed that shecontinued to do everything at home as well as work to support us.Again, the only opportunity for the wife to make those contributions was in theperiod from 14 March 2008 until she evicted thehusband from their home in April2008 and then from the (unidentified) date in April or May 2008 when shereturned from Sydney until27 May 2008. It is possible that the wife made somedirect and indirect non-financial contributions to the award but, if so, theywere modest. Section 79(4)(c) Contributions Thisprovision deals with contributions to the family including contributions in theform of homemaker contributions and contributionsto children of the marriage. Thereare no children of the marriage. It is agreed that the husband made homemakercontributions. The wife concedes that he didthe cooking and although shecontends that she did some housework, she does not assert that she did it all. On the other hand, thehusband does not concede that the wife performed anyhousehold duties. Neither of the parties was challenged in cross-examinationabout their evidence on this issue. It is inherently unlikely that the wifeperformed no household duties during the marriage. Theparties both earned income from personal exertion during the marriage. Normally, income from wages would be relevant to s 79(4)(a) but here there is noidentified link, whether direct or indirect, between the application of thatincome and the acquisition, conservationor improvement of any past or presentpropertyof the parties. The evidence suggests that the parties income waslargely,if not exclusively applied to their living expenses, expensesassociated with the husbands visa applications, the costs associatedwithhusbands travel to Italy and the costs associated with thehusbands entertainment career. On that basis the appropriateplace torecognise the contributions made with the parties income is under thisprovision. Learnedcounsel for the wife identified two sources for evidence about the income of theparties during the period of their relationship. In respect of the wife, shecited income tax returns[12] for therelevant years. In relation to the husband she cited the husbands incomestatement[13] attached to hiscompensation application. The form completed by the husband only called for hisincome over the three years precedingthe injury. The husband has not givenother specific evidence about his income nor has he introduced his income taxreturns intoevidence. I recall that in the course of his oral evidence he mayhave said something to the effect that from time to time he hadother casualemployment. The thrust of the argument made on behalf of the wife was that itwould have been in the husbandsinterests to fully identify his pastearnings in support of his compensation claim. I accept that, as a matter oflogic. Therewould be no obvious reason for the husband to understate hisincome in that statement, quite the contrary. In any event I am notpermittedto make assumptions about matters that could have readily been addressed inevidence and were not. Thereare minor differences in my calculations of the husbands income to thecalculations advanced on behalf of the wife. If my calculations are correctthen it is possible that in summarising the evidence about the partiesincomes the wifescounsel may have relied on the wifes taxableincome but, in some instances, on the husbands after tax income. I donot suggest that counsel was trying to mislead the Court. By my calculations,the before-tax income of the parties over the yearsof their relationship,revealed in the evidence, was asfollows: Year ending 30 June Wifes income Husbands income 2005 $65,709 Not Known 2006 $30,281 $17,399 2007 $26,021 $27,128 2008 $47,202 $17,517 Total $169,213.00 $62,044.00 Althoughit is not clearly identified anywhere, the husband had some income in the firstyear of the parties relationship. The wife conceded that fact. Thehusband was the holder of holiday visas until October 2004. It was thewifes evidencethat notwithstanding the restrictions imposed on holdersof holiday visas, the husband did some work for Mr J while subject to suchavisa. In October 2004 the husband secured a working holiday visa, permittingcasual work in three month blocks. For three monthsfrom October 2004 thehusband worked in a hospitality business. The wife deposed to the husbandworking a few hours a day and earningabout $200 per week. Thereafter, the wifecontends that he only worked intermittently. Sufficeit to say that the wifes income during the parties relationshipwas greater than that of the husband. The partiesare not in complete agreementabout who paid for which expenses. It is agreed that the wife paid for someitems relating to thehusbands work as an entertainer. However, thehusband disputed the contention that the wife paid for clothing identifiedin aninvoice dated 16 February of an unidentified year from Casa Adamo at a cost of$1,780[14]. I do not recall himasserting that he paid for that clothing but that is the implication in hiscase. Given the imbalance in theparties income it is more probable thannot that the wife paid for those clothes. I note that in the statement from thehusbandsCommonwealth Bank savings account for the period 15 December2005 to 13 March 2006[15] the onlysignificant credits are endorsed DB Antiques. That corroboratesthe wifes evidence that she sold hercollection of antique items tosupport the husbands entertainment career. Allmanner of allegations are made one party against the other in these proceedingsbut I do not recall any allegation to the effectthat either party madesignificant diversions of their income from the purposes of the marriage. Whilethe wifes income was greater than that of the husband, both partiesearned income from personal exertion during the marriage. Itis an agreed fact that the wife made arrangements to support the husbandscareer as an entertainer. It transpired thatthose efforts were not repaid inthe formation of a successful entertainment career but they assisted the husbandin any event. Similarly, the physical and financial contributions towards thehusbands status in Australia were exclusively to his longterm benefit. The same applies to the husbands travel to Italy. Of course it is notrequired that the relevant contributionsare only those that bear financialfruit. Thehusband is likely to have performed more of the homemaker contributions, thanthe wife, if only because she was more engaged inpaid employment than him. Thewifes income was greater than that of the husband and, apart from normalliving expenses, thehusband had greater individual benefit from the applicationof that income. Thewifes contributions of this type were greater than those of thehusband. Conclusion on Contribution Casessuch as this present a particular challenge in identifying and explaining afinding on contribution. There is no consensusas to the permissible range offindings and the range of dispute between the parties is so extensive as to beunhelpful. More thanthat, I am reasonably confident in recording that thecontribution finding pressed on the Court by each of the parties is outsidethelegitimate range of discretion on the issue. Each case is unique and in my viewthere is nothing to be learnt from the outcomeof other cases, the facts ofwhich might be said to be analogous to circumstances before me. That said,neither of the parties referredto similar fact cases. Thiswas a short marriage, where there are no children and where the only significantproperty comprises two assets that were broughtinto the marriage by the husbandand to which the wife made little or no contribution. It follows that thecontributions of thehusband substantially exceeded the contributions of thewife. There is no doubt that the wife provided the more financial supporttothe household than the husband but he made the greater contribution overall. Withoutthe Italian property and the personal injury settlement it is possible that thehusband would be found to have made substantial,if not equal contributions tothose of the wife. The parties both had paid employment, with the wife earningmore and working moreconsistently than the husband but with the husbandperforming more of the homemaker role. That suggests that a significant marginis required to acknowledge the two assets contributed by the husband. Takingthose matters into account, I am satisfied that theparties contributionswould be properly recognised with a finding that they were made in theproportions 70 per cent by thehusband and on his behalf, compared to 30 percent by the wife. What might otherwise be seen as a generous allowance to thewifeis justified by her contributions to the husbands career, his statusin Australia and his family travel. THE OTHER MATTERS IN SECTION 79 Oncecontributions have been assessed, the other factors in s 79(4) need to beconsidered. The relevant matters are: Thewife is 62 years of age and the husband is 39 years of age. InSeptember 2012 the wife was diagnosed with early breast cancer and underwent twooperations followed by chemotherapy and radiotherapy. The wife deposes that shewas subsequently diagnosed to have Post Traumatic Stress Disorder and is on adisability support pension. The wifes cancer is in remission. Thewife has undergone psychological treatment. From August 2010 to February 2011she saw Ms R and since 22 May 2012 has seen ClinicalPsychologist Ms Z. Ms Zsays that the wifes symptoms of depression and Traumatic Stress Disorderhave reduced with treatmentbut she opines that the wife will need ongoingsupport in order to maintain stable mood and to prevent a relapse. Thehusband suffered a workplace injury in March 2008. There is no evidence abouthis current state of health. Thewifes income is $440 per week in the form of the disability supportpension. According to her Financial Statement she lives alone, receivesnobenefit from any other person and her only expenditure is $300 per week on rent.It makes no sense that she has no other expenditurebut that is herevidence. Theevidence about the wifes assets and liabilities is set out earlier inthese reasons. I note in particular that she declaresno personal or consumerdebt. Thewife does not anticipate that she will be able to return to full time work. Iassume from the nature of her further studies (postgraduatestudies in law) thatthe wife hopes to return to legal work in some form. However, the wife is 62years of age and therefore, atan age when many would anticipate retiring fromthe paid workforce. In the wifes case she has experienced significantlycompromisedphysical and psychological health. It was not suggested to the wifeduring cross-examination, nor in the course of the husbandssubmissionsthat she has a significant degree of unexercised earning capacity. Thehusbands Financial Statement asserts that he has no income and nooutgoings. It is his sworn evidence that there are no other income earnersinhis household[16] and as is referredto above, it is his evidence that he does not benefit from payments made byothers. Theevidence about his assets and liabilities is addressed above. A division of theassets in accordance with the finding about contributionswill leave the husbandwith more assets than the wife. Thereis no evidence about the husbands earning capacity. Thereis no evidence about the relevant standard of living. The husband makesassertions about the wife having some overseas travelsince separation. Thereis no evidence about the extent or cost of that travel, let alone how it wasfunded. The husband travelledto Italy during the marriage. Theonly agreed creditors are the Commonwealth through the HELP scheme and lawyerswho acted for the parties in relation to theseand other proceedings. As Iunderstand it, repayments under the HELP scheme are triggered by taxable incomeat a certain minimumlevel. It is possible that the wife will not return to thethreshold level of income. Sufficeit to say that the greater the payment to each party the better they will beable to repay their debts. Thewife contributed to the husbands income although she contends that hisincome was minimal. Sadly, neither party has revealeda current earningcapacity. I have referred to the evidence about contributions to propertyabove. Asto the duration of the marriage and the extent to which it has affected theearning capacity of the parties: there is no evidenceabout the husbandsearning capacity at the start or the finish of the marriage. It is likely thatthe marriage adverselyaffected the wifes earning capacity although theremust also have been some impact from her poor health since separation. Thehusband failed to give any evidence about the financial circumstances relatingto his cohabitation with Ms X. Althoughhe adduced no evidence about it, it is possible that there are circumstances inrespect of the Italian property that wouldbe relevant. As I have mentionedabove, there is evidence that at some time there was income received from theproperty. If therecontinues to be such income and it is available to thehusband then he has failed to disclose that fact. Onthe other hand, if there is something about the property that restricts orlimits the husbands capacity to deal with itthen that would be relevant.Given that possibility and in any event, there are likely to be advantages tothe wife in receivingher settlement exclusively in the form of cash from thesettlement funds, rather than by orders in respect of the Italianproperty. CONCLUSION Itis submitted on behalf of the wife that there should be an adjustment of between3 per cent and 5 per cent in her favour basedon the difference in age betweenthe parties, the wifes poor health and the fact that it would be unjustif no allowance weremade. The husband volunteered at one point that thereshould be a payment to the wife calculated at 25 per cent of the value ofthefund held by C Law Firm. That would be about $22,648. Iaccept that in each case those submissions were based on the arguments madeabout the balance sheet and about contributions. Giventhat fact, it would bepermissible to contemplate a larger adjustment than the adjustment proposed inthe wifes case. Therelevant matters arising from the remaining elements of s 79, which include thes 75(2) factors referred to above are: A division basedon contributions alone will leave the husband in better financial circumstancesthan the wife. In dollar terms hewill be over $62,000 better off; The husband isover 20 years younger than the wife; The wife hassuffered a very serious and debilitating illness and has compromised mentalhealth; and The husband hasnot given proper financial disclosure and in particular, has not disclosed thefinancial incidents of his relationshipwith Ms X. Thereis a modest pool of assets. In the context of that pool, an allowance of 5 percent would represent $7,789.20 and would makea disparity between the parties oftwice that sum. In my view that is the proper allowance to the wife. Just and Equitable Therelevant assets have a value of $155,784.06 of which $1,845.55 is in the form ofsuperannuation. Ifthe assets are divided in the proportions 65 per cent to the husband and35 per cent to the wife then the husband will have assetsworth about$101,259.64 and the wife will have about $54,524.42. Theparties apparently agree that any adjustment between them will be made out ofthe funds held on trust. Despite the wording ofthe orders formally sought byher, I understand that the wife no longer considers it to be practicable for herto take any interestin the Italian property or for the Court to make anenforceable order for its disposition. Therefore the operative order will dealwith the division of the fund held in the controlled moneys account. Thepool of assets identified by me is asfollows: Owner Description Value H Italian property, agreed 43,465.65. (At the exchange rate of .6862 on 29September) $63,343 H Trust moneys held by C Law Firm ($133,894 - $43,298.49) $90,595.51 H Superannuation $1,845.55 Total $155,784.06 Inorder to achieve a settlement of 35 per cent of the assets, the wife shouldreceive $54,524.42 from the invested funds. I willround that up to $54,525. The wife will owe her counsels fees and HELP debt. Thatwill leave the husband with $36,070.51 from the settlement moneys, the Italianproperty and his superannuation. He will owemoneys to his lawyers. Itshould not go without saying that the financial cost of these proceedings, notto mention the stress and delay incurred by theparties, are out of allproportion to the modest pool of assets in dispute. These were proceedings thatthe parties should havecompromised long ago. That said, in the circumstances Iam satisfied that orders that achieve the proposed division are just andequitable. CONCLUSION UNDER SECTION 79 Thiswas a marriage that spanned four years. The parties both made contributions butthe assets are of modest value. The main assetswere contributed by thehusband. An adjustment in favour of the wife is justified by reference toconsiderations arising from s 79(4)(e). In my view the orders proposed willreflect a just and equitable division of their property. OTHER ISSUES Thehusband appeared to be greatly aggrieved about the general conduct of the wifesince separation, which he characterised as defaminghim and seeking to do himdamage, as well as her conduct in other proceedings between the parties. Inthat regard the husband soughtseveral orders seeking to address thosegrievances. Iunderstand that the husband and wife are engaged in other proceedings aboutthose matters. In any event, to the extent that thematters raised by thehusband in exhibit 9 are in the form of orders sought about issues that arewithin the jurisdiction of thisCourt, he has not made a case for relief. I certify that the preceding one hundred and fifty one (151)paragraphs are a true copy of the reasons for judgment of the HonourableJusticeLoughnan delivered on 17 October 2014. Associate: Date: 17 October 2014 [1] Exhibit9. [2] Annexure P to thehusbands affidavit [3]Paragraph 19 [4] Paragraph 12 ofthe husbands affidavit [5]Annexure B to the husbandsaffidavit [6] Annexure M to thehusbands affidavit [7] SeeBiltoft & Biltoft [1995] FamCA 45; (1995) FLC 92-614 in relation to uncertain orquestionable debts [8] Invoice forcounsels fees - Exhibit6 [9] See copies of Western UnionMoney Transfer documents which are part of annexure M to the husbandsaffidavit [10] See reference inAleksovski & Aleksovski (1996) FLC 92-705 at 83,437 thata damages verdict arising from a personal injury claim, wheneverreceived, is a contribution by the party whosuffered the injury. [11] Exhibit3 [12] Exhibit 4 [13] Exhibit3 [14] Annexure C to thewifes affidavit [15]Annexure D to the wifesaffidavit [16] Part E of thehusbands Financial Statement AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2014/880.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     