FAMILY LAW  CHILDREN  CaseManagement and Hearing Orders Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) APPLICANT: Mr Farmer RESPONDENT: Ms Farmer INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: Legal Aid NSW FILENUMBER: AYC 340 of 2007 DATE DELIVERED: 22 November 2007 PLACE DELIVERED: Melbourne PLACE HEARD: Melbourne JUDGMENT OF: Young J HEARING DATE: 22 November 2007 REPRESENTATION COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT: Mr Weil SOLICITOR FOR THE APPLICANT: Loretta Terrill COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENT: Mr Thompson SOLICITOR FOR THE RESPONDENT: Belbridge Hague COUNSELFOR THE INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: MsWearne SOLICITOR FOR THE INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER: Legal Aid New South Wales ORDERS THATthe final hearing of the children, parenting, relocation and property issues befixed before Dessau J at 2.15 p.m. on Monday17 December 2007 for a hearing of4 days duration. THATon or before Monday 3 December 2007 the husband make, file andserve: (a) his affidavit of evidence in chief; (b) the affidavits of his mother, father, Ms T, Ms D and Ms E; (c) any other affidavit upon which he intends to rely. THATon or before Thursday 29 November 2007 the wife make, file and serve theaffidavit of Dr V. THATon or before Monday 10 December 2007 the wife make, file andserve: (a) her affidavit of evidence in chief; (b) the affidavits of her mother, sister, general practitioner Dr S and hertreating psychologist Ms K (c) any other affidavit upon which she intends to rely. THATleave be granted to the Independent Childrens Lawyer to forthwith issuesubpoenae to each of the individuals or organisationsidentified in theaccompanying extempore reasons for judgment and all such subpoenas be madereturnable in the Family Court of Australiaat Albury on 6 December 2007 at10.00 a.m. before Senior Registrar FitzGibbon. THATthe husband and wife forthwith confer through their legal practitioners as tothe value of their Albury home and, if unable toagree then they are to obtainfor the hearing a joint valuation (at their joint expense) on or before 10December 2007. THATthe husband and wife are required to attend at a conference organised with theFamily Dispute Resolution Section, by New SouthWales Legal Aid on or beforeThursday 6 December 2007 and to make a bona fide endeavour to resolve alloutstanding children, parenting,relocation, property and financial issues orotherwise to limit the matters in dispute in these proceedings. THATthe Trustees of the Superannuation Fund of each of the husband and wife beforthwith given proper notice of the hearing and ofany superannuation splittingorder and be afforded procedural fairness in all ways required. THATthe Independent Childrens Lawyer file any other affidavit upon which theyintend to rely on or before 4.00 p.m. on 11December 2007. THATon or before 12 December 2007 each of the solicitors for the husband, the wifeand the Independent Childrens Lawyer make,file and serve the followingdocuments: (a) a summaryof argument; (b) a statementof the specific orders sought; (c) a statementof the relevant s60CC factors; (d) achronology; (e) a summaryof assets and liabilities; (f) a list ofaffidavits and witnesses to be relied upon; (g) a letterpursuant to Rule 19.04 of the Family Law Rules as to appropriate cost disclosureinformation. THATthe extempore reasons for judgment be transcribed, be placed upon the Court fileand be made available to all parties. THATliberty be reserved to apply to Dessau J on short notice but upon propermaterial filed and served. IT IS NOTED: THATthe conciliation conference fixed in Melbourne at the Family Court this morningdid not resolve issues but the parties did attendthat conference and were inCourt for this mention this afternoon. IT IS NOTED that publication of this judgment under thepseudonym Farmer & Farmer is approved pursuant to s 121(9)(g) of theFamily Law Act 1975 (Cth) FAMILY COURT OF AUSTRALIA AT MELBOURNE FILE NUMBER: AYC340 of 2007 MR FARMER Applicant And MS FARMER Respondent And INDEPENDENT CHILDRENS LAWYER REASONS FOR JUDGMENT Thematter of Farmer & Farmer and the Independent Children's Lawyer is listedfor mention before me this day. The matter waspreviously before me on 9November 2007 for mention and at which time it was adjourned to this day toascertain from the coordinatingJudge or listing Registrar if there was anavailable date for this matter to be listed in Melbourne for a defended hearingpriorto Christmas. Ihave been provided with the date of 17 December 2007 before Dessau Jcommencing at 2.15 p.m. and the matter will be listed and commenceat that time.The week is available for the hearing and conclusion of the case which involveschildren's issues and a modest propertydivision. I have taken the opportunityto list the matter today to understand the particular issues and case manage thecase soit will be prepared and ready for hearing. Mr Weilof counsel appeared for the husband, Mr Thompson of counsel for the wife and MsWearne, by telephone, has appeared from Alburyfor the children. Ido not propose to set out the background of the issues in dispute, but Iindicate I have read the interim reasons for judgment deliveredby Cronin J on28 August 2007 and it is clear from that judgment his Honour'sconcerns as to an early hearing of the matter. OtherwiseI have had the opportunity of scanning the transcript of evidence from SeniorRegistrar FitzGibbon in the hearing on 15August 2007 and the issues that werethen before the court. There are on file and I have therefore read the ordersarising fromeach of those particular hearings. Thereare two children of this marriage: M, who is three and a half years of age andB, who is approaching his second birthday. Currently the two children live withthe parties as provided for in paragraph 14 of the orders of Cronin J and theprincipal disputein this case concerning the children is with whom they shalllive hereafter and whether the wife be permitted to relocate to thesouth-western area of Sydney. It is proposed that the wife relocates with hermother and resides in that area with the husband remainingin the Albury/Wodongaarea. Ihave particularly concentrated upon affidavits and evidence and an appropriatefiling timetable of documents. On behalf of thefather, Mr Weil hasindicated that his client will be filing affidavits and relying upon theevidence of the father, his father andmother, Ms T, Ms D andMs E. Clearly some of those affidavits are by way of family background andthe local benefits of the Albury/Wodongaarea. Irequire the affidavits that Mr Weil is to rely upon to be filed and served uponall parties by 3 December. Mr Thompsonhas indicated that his instructing solicitor has largely prepared all of theevidence that the wife will rely upon andI therefore require all suchaffidavits, including any response to issues raised by the husband, to be filedand served on or before10 December. Mr Thompson has indicated thathis client, apart from her own affidavit of evidence-in-chief, will be filing anaffidavitfrom her mother and sister, her general practitioner Dr S, hertreating psychologist Ms K, and a short affidavit from Dr V. Ms Wearne,appearing as the Independent Children's Lawyer, will rely upon the recentlyprepared and filed report of Ms N, family consultantAlbury Registry. Thatreport is on file. I have read the recommendations contained in paragraphs 65-69(inclusive) thereof and otherwiseMs Wearne has referred me to paragraph 59which touches upon the possibility of a relocation when the children are older. My briefreading of that report is it carefully makes no specificrecommendations and leaves the determination of issues to the trial judge. Ms Wearnehas additionally highlighted the reliance by both parties upon medical evidenceand candidly advised the court that shehas no particular concerns with theparties' medical supervision, direction or treatment obtained from specialistsor general practitioners. Within that context, therefore, it may be that therecan be a reconsideration of what medical evidence is to be called and whichisof benefit to the court in determining the various children's issues. Icarefully make no judgment or give no specific directionfor such evidence notto be called, but in the context of the ongoing discussion which the partieswill have at the Family DisputeResolution Centre then these matters can be morecarefully considered and then discussed with their legal practitioners. Ihighlight that at one point in these submissions Mr Weil identified thatthe wife previously had a treating psychologist, Dr W,and that person is notcurrently proposed to file an affidavit by the wife. Again, I give no directionand, of course, counsel thenappearing for the husband can be at liberty incross-examination to raise matters of assistance to the court. Iam conscious that if Dr F is required to give evidence he is located at theRoyal Children's Hospital in Melbourne, as are his recordsof the treatment ofM's epilepsy, and whilst I will grant the subpoena as sought, there should be aslittle inconvenience to thehospitals and professional witnesses as is possible.In that regard Ms Wearne has sought leave to issue subpoenae to thefollowing: Department ofHuman Services, Wodonga; Albury-WodongaChildren's Contact Service; Royal Children'sHospital/Dr F; Dr C; Dr S. Ipropose to grant such leave, but require all such subpoenae to be madereturnable and all documents and reports produced thereunderto be before theFamily Court in Albury on 6 December 2007 when I understandSenior Registrar FitzGibbon is sitting. Irequire the parties to attend on or before 6 December 2007 at a family disputeresolution section conference to be organised throughNew South Wales Legal Aid.Ms Wearne has kindly undertaken to organise that discussion and hopefullysettlement resolution conference. It will take place in Albury. I require thehusband and wife to attend personally and to make a bona fide endeavour toresolveall financial, children and parenting issues or, at the very least, tosubstantially limit the matters in issue. Ihave discussed with all counsel a timetable for filing their court requireddocuments and specifically: a summary ofargument; a statement ofthe specific orders sought; a statement ofthe section 60CC factors; achronology; a statement ofassets and liabilities; a letter inaccordance with the costs disclosure rules contained within Rule19.04. I require all of those documents to be filed withthe court and then served upon all other parties by 10.00 a.m. on Wednesday, 12December 2007. Ipause to underline in these brief extempore reasons that this matter is tocommence at 2.15 p.m. on Monday, 17 December. The courttherefore has four anda half days to hear and determine the matters in issue. The parties mustunderstand that there are and willbe no other options. The hearing starts onthat date. Documents must be filed as ordered with no extensions. Thereshould be no perception that this matter has had any favourable treatment by wayof an early hearing date as it just occurredthat a vacancy arose in herHonour's list at a time when my docket listing was wholly booked for the monthsof January, Februaryand the first half of March and this matter, by purecoincidence, was the very last of the 32 docket matters I called over and fixed.Both parties should welcome the opportunity to quickly sort out their children'sissues and future. This family and these childrenneed certainty. Theother matter I touch upon is that the property assets are relatively modest. The gross asset pool is approximately $500,000. The home in Albury is of avalue between $460,000 and $500,000 and the parties must agree on a valueforthwith or otherwise mutuallyappoint at their joint expense a valuer. Theother significant issue is superannuation. The husband's superannuation is withthe Defence Forces Fund and totals approximately$180,000. The wife'ssuperannuation is with the Education Department of New South Wales and totalsapproximately $47,000. Noticesmust be given to the Trustees of the Funds,particularly Defence Forces, as to any likely superannuation split. It isincumbentupon the practitioners to immediately comply with all proceduralfairness and ensure that the Funds know of any particular superannuationsplitthat may be sought before the court in this hearing. Thereare no ongoing issues of spousal maintenance and from inquiries I made of thepractitioners the child support issues are subjectof review and that is beforethe Agency within the next two weeks. Iam advised that up-to-date Form 13 financial statements have been filed, butotherwise it is incumbent upon the parties to includeall relevant financialdetails as to income, contributions, section 75(2) factors or their financialneeds within their trial affidavit. Withthose brief reasons and with a request to Ms Wearne that she ensures thatMs N knows of the hearing date and is available inthat week commencing17 December (in Melbourne or by video link if appropriate and so ordered)and with other solicitors being requiredto ensure that all of their witnessesare available, I emphasise that the obligation on practitioners are to commenceand concludethis case within the week. I certify that thepreceding 23 paragraphs are a true copy of the reasons for judgment herein ofThe Honourable Justice Young Associate Date: 22 November 2007 AustLII:Copyright Policy|Disclaimers|Privacy Policy|Feedback URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FamCA/2007/1388.html                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 